CHAPTER 1: ROUTINE EVENTS
1.1 BATTLE RHYTHM
Mondayday-Fridayday Schedule
0530 Earliest rising time for plebes (alarms set no earlier than 0530)
0545-0645 1st Alternate Period for 4/C Professional Quiz (M only)
0630-0800 Rolling Tray Morning Meal (W) 0755-0845 First Period
0635-0655 Optional Come-Around Period (M/W/F)(SEE NOTE 1) 0755-0910 Eighth Period
0855-0945 Second Period
0635-0655 Optional Company Instruction Period (Tu/Th)
0955-1045 Third Period
0655 Formal Uniform Inspection (Tu)
0955-1110 Ninth Period
0700 Morning Quarters Formation
1055-1145 Fourth Period
0710-0740 Morning Meal
1330-1420 Fifth Period
1130 Early meal for oncoming watch section 1330-1445 Tenth Period
1205 Noon Meal Formation (M,Tu,Th,F) 1430-1520 Sixth Period
1215-1250 Noon Meal 1530-1620 Seventh Period
1250-1320 Company Instruction/Training Period (M/W) (Except finals)
1250-1320 Academic Lectures and Meetings (Tu/Th) (Except finals)
1545-1800 Athletic Reserve Period (varsity, club, intramural, drill)
1730-1900 Evening Meal – Rolling Tray (M/T/W/TH), King’s Court (F)
1900-2000 2nd Alternate Period for 4/C Professional Quiz (F only)
1900-2000 Midshipmen Activity Period (M/T/W/TH)
1930-2000 Instruction Period-Secondary (M/T/W/TH)
2000-2300 Study Period (See NOTE 1 AND 2)
NLT 2245 Blue and Gold (optional M-Th) (time at discretion of Co. Commander)
2300 TAPS for upperclass and lights out for 4/C (M/T/W/TH)
2359 TAPS (F)
2359 Liberty expires for all 1/C and 2/C not on weekend (F only)
Saturdayurday Schedule
0630-0730 Morning Meal
0800-0930 Training Period (as directed) (may start at 0700 with CO permission)
1130-1300 Noon Meal
1700-1830 Evening Meal
2359 Liberty expires, TAPS for all midshipmen not on weekend
Sundayday Schedule
0700-0900 Morning Meal
1100-1300 Brunch
1600-1730 Mandatory ProKnow Study Session for UNSAT 4/C (SEE NOTE 1)
1800 End of Liberty Formation
1810-1900 Evening Meal (Sit Down or Rolling Tray per Brigade Google Calendar)
1900-2000 Primary 4/C Professional Quiz Period
1900-2000 Midshipman Activity Period
2000-2300 Study Period
NLT2245 Blue and Gold (See 1.8.1)
2300 TAPS, Lights out for 4/C (Chit from squad leader to extend)
1-1
NOTE 1: COME AROUND GUIDANCE
a. Prior to the Fall 6-week grade report, 4/C come arounds during study period are prohibited.
Regular and supplemental come arounds must be completed prior to 2000.
b. Following the Fall 6-week grade report, all SAT 4/C may schedule one 30 minutes come
around per study period (one per day). Upperclass may not mandate come arounds during study
period.
c. UNSAT 4/C will be prohibited from conducting come arounds during study period. To
ensure UNSAT 4/C still understand proknow, there will be a mandatory study session each
Sundayday from 1600-1730.
d. Academic EI and study sessions will have a higher priority than come arounds for all 4/C.
e. SAT/UNSAT status of 4/C will automatically update after each grade entry period. Fall
semester final grades determine eligibility at the start of the Spring semester.
NOTE 2: STUDY PERIOD GUIDANCE
a. Study period will take place from 2000-2300 (Su-F) to ensure MIDN have adequate study
time to master academic material and complete assignments.
b. Two Blue and Golds per week in accordance with Section 1.8 below.
c. Other than Blue and Gold, study period shall have no mandatory events for 4/C.
d. Midshipmen not on liberty shall be in one of the following locations during study period:
(1) Their own room or another midshipman's room to obtain or provide academic
assistance;
(2) The library or an academic building;
(3) On watch;
(4) The wardroom (can be class-specific based on company commander policy);
(5) Steerage (see Section 8.9 for class privileges at Steerage);
(6) At a sporting event on the Yard if academically SAT;
(7) Conducting personal physical training on the Yard only.
e. Midshipmen shall not play loud music or engage in disruptive activity.
f. 1/C, 2/C, and 3/C shall not enter a 4/C room unless providing academic assistance.
1-2
1.2 MEDICAL CARE AT THE BRIGADE MEDICAL UNIT (BMU)
1. Midshipmen reporting to BMU shall wear regulation PE gear or better and shall:
a. Schedule routine medical and dental appointments at USNA before class, during free
periods or after class unless approved by CO/SEL.
b. Utilize Brigade Medical and Dental as their primary health care and dental providers for
evaluation, treatment, advice, and referral for all routine medical and dental conditions. All
Midshipmen who are seen by an outside provider shall schedule an appointment with BMU on
the next working day to discuss that care and coordinate ongoing care. After hours, the nurse
advice line shall be contacted for all non-emergency medical issues. To reach the nurse advice
line, dial 410-293-1758, wait 6 rings, and then you will be automatically transferred. The nurse
will forward your call to the duty health provider when warranted. For emergency issues,
midshipmen shall immediately contact emergency medical services (3-3333 or 911), and notify
the duty health care provider as soon as practicable.
c. Cancel medical appointments at least 24 hours in advance if they cannot attend.
Midshipmen shall prioritize medical appointments per the table of priorities.
2. Midshipmen must use the Tricare Online Portal or call 410-293-1758 to make an appointment
to be seen at the Brigade Medical Unit for a daily morning appointment. These appointments
run from 0630-1030 with 10 and 20-minute appointments, and then 20-minute appointments
after 1030. There is no “walk-in sick call” by design, but midshipmen with especially severe
symptoms will not be turned away. Midshipmen who arrive at BMU with only mild symptoms
may be turned away and told to make an appointment.
a. A midshipman must inform their MIDN chain of command (verbally or via email) when
they schedule an appointment at BMU that causes them to miss any military obligations,
including class. If the appointment schedule or necessary care requires the midshipman to miss
class, the midshipman must also inform their CO/SEL and their instructors. The need to miss
class after the appointment will be guided by clinical recommendations as outlined on the
Midshipman Sick in Quarters (SIQ) chit, which shall be forwarded to the individual’s Company
Officer (CO) or Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL) for review/approval.
3. Midshipmen may not enter “Sick in Room” (SIR) into the Academic Accountability System
unless they receive a SIQ chit and it is signed by their CO/SEL. As a point of emphasis, chits are
not valid until signed by the CO or SEL. Once the chit is approved, a copy shall be posted on the
midshipman’s door (after removing any sensitive medical information). No trainer for a varsity
athletic team may issue a medical chit to a midshipman.
a. Light Duty: Midshipmen placed on light duty will be provided with a medical excuse
authorization form. Midshipmen shall resume regular duties and deliver the original medical
excuse authorization form to their CO/SEL. The original chit (or a digital image of the same)
must remain in the midshipman’s possession at all times during the period of limited duty.
b. Midshipmen unable to attend meals due to illness or injury may have meals from King
1-3
Hall picked up for them by another midshipman.
c. A midshipman wishing to pick up food for an SIQ midshipman from the diet kitchen must
be able to provide a copy of the chit, if requested.
4. See Section 9.7 for further details regarding Medical Care from providers other than BMU.
1.3 INSTRUCTION PERIOD
1. Instruction periods shall be used for the training of midshipmen. Multiple training sessions
will be offered so that all midshipmen complete prescribed training.
2. The priority of instruction periods depends on the individual administering the training.
Midshipmen will consult the table of priorities to determine legitimate Excusals from training
sessions.
3. Come-Around Period and Discretionary Instruction Periods will not be utilized during exam
weeks, academic reserve periods, or on review and study days.
4. Company Instruction Period following Noon meal (1250-1320, M/W) is reserved for
Company Officer/Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL). If the Company Officer and SEL choose not to
utilize the Instruction Period time, other individuals may conduct training.
1.4 FORMATION, MEAL, AND ROOM INSPECTION
1. Midshipmen shall be in an inspection-ready prescribed uniform when attending indoor
formation. Covers shall be worn at the discretion of the Company Commander (CC).
Midshipmen authorized to wear an alternate uniform for medical purposes must carry their CO
approved chit on their person at all times.
2. Outdoor formations shall be conducted in accordance with the Marine Corps Drill and
Ceremonies Manual MCO P5060.20 W Ch 1.
3. All classes will attend Morning Quarters Formation and Noon Meal Formation as per the
table of priorities outlined in Section 2.1.
4. Meals and formations will be attended in accordance with the Brigade Google Calendar.
5. Each company shall conduct at least one company-wide Class Bravo room inspection per
week at a time specified by the Company Commander.
6. End of liberty (EOL) formation shall be attended in person by all classes in the prescribed
uniform.
1.5 ATHLETIC RESERVE PERIOD AND INDIVIDUAL PT
1. Athletic Reserve Period is reserved for drill, club, intramural, and varsity sports practices and
competitions. All scheduled intramural events take precedence over individual or company-
1-4
based workouts. Companies and Battalions may utilize this time for “group PT” if no other
organized physical events (drill, intramurals, etc.) are scheduled.
2. During the Athletic Reserve Period, midshipmen may not use any non-physical fitness related
facilities on Naval Support Activity Annapolis (NSAA). Such facilities include but are not
limited to: Commissary, Navy Exchange (NEX), gas station, barber shop, Navy Federal Credit
Union, and retail food outlets.
3. Individual midshipmen wishing to conduct workouts off the Yard while not on town liberty,
including outside the Athletic Reserve Period unless otherwise specified, will be permitted to do
so, provided they:
a. Conduct workouts between sunrise and sunset.
b. Wear regulation PE gear or designated alternate uniform (Sea Trials, Infantry Skills Team,
Combat Fitness, or for ECAs specifically designated by the Commandant’s Operations Officer).
All but 4/C Midshipmen may wear Navy/USMC-related technical PT gear off the Yard for
endurance sports. 4/C must wear blue rim shirts and keep them tucked in at all times.
c. Utilize running routes that have either bike lanes, sidewalks, or running paths.
d. Not stop at or enter into any home, business, or other establishment for any purpose other
than to use the restroom facilities.
e. Only run, walk, bicycle, or ride in a motorized vehicle to commute between the Yard and
other authorized areas. 1/C Midshipmen may drive authorized vehicles (including Personally
Owned Vehicles (POV)) to and from NSA Annapolis and may transport underclassmen. 2/C
Midshipmen may also drive their POVs on the Yard to transport underclassmen, but parking is
not authorized during athletic reserve period.
f. Wear appropriate USNA cold weather gear when harsh weather conditions dictate.
g. Conduct workouts at the O-Course or the E-Course in accordance with USNAINST
11100.7 (series). This requirement ensures that at least one safety observer is available to call
for assistance and render aid in the event of an injury.
4. Use of Navy Working Uniforms (NWU) as workout attire is subject to the following
restrictions:
a. On the Yard: Wear NWUs as either a complete uniform (i.e., boots, trousers, brown t-
shirt, blouse, and cover) or “modified NWUs” (blouse and cover removed) only during physical
training on the Yard.
b. Off Yard/NSAA: Wear full NWUs or “modified NWUs,” as desired, only for runs transiting
to/from the O-Course, E-Course, or Confidence Course (use approved safety route to NSAA in
Section 5.1). NWUs or “modified NWUs” may be worn on the applicable course. Wearer must
be running or jogging while in NWUs off the Yard or NSAA (no walking or biking).
1-5
c. Deviations from this policy for approved team or Company PT associated with a combat-
or drill- related event, e.g. ECA, Saturdayurday Morning Training (SMT), Marine Corps Combat
Fitness Test (CFT), etc., must be approved by the Commandant’s Operation’s Officer or
applicable Battalion Officer.
5. Athletic teams are authorized to conduct workouts off the Yard as a team during their team
practice times when directed by their Coach. Each member must wear team-approved workout
gear.
6. Midshipmen in a duty status (in the daily duty section) may conduct workouts on the Yard
only.
1.6 MIDSHIPMAN ACTIVITY PERIOD
1. Midshipman Activity Period shall be reserved for ECAs, club sports meetings, voluntary
academic events, and Command religious programs.
2. The Commandant of Midshipmen must approve other events scheduled during this period.
1.7 TAPS AND LATE LIGHTS
1. Each individual midshipman shall sign TAPS before the appointed time. TAPS
accountability will be conducted at 2300 on Sundayday through Thursdayrsday and at 2359 on Fridayday and
Saturdayurday by the Company Duty Officer (CDO). Each midshipman must be visually identified by
a member of the duty section (i.e. CDO or ACDO).
2. After signing TAPS, midshipmen shall:
a. Be physically present in their rooms for TAPS, asleep or awake.
b. Inform their CDO when they depart from and return to company area after TAPS.
3. 4/C Midshipmen may: Have late lights until 2359 or early lights before 2200 if approved by
their Squad Leader.
4. It is the responsibility of each individual midshipman to sign taps before the appointed time
and to ensure that the CDO has accounted for them.
1.8 SINGING BLUE AND GOLD
1. Blue and Gold shall be held in Company areas on Sundaydays and may be held one other day of
the week. Blue and Gold should be a “positive” event, but it is also a leadership tool that can be
used to address 4/C performance in a professional manner. Motivational push-ups are authorized
(in memory of fallen midshipmen, to Beat Army, etc.), but remedial pushups are not.
2. Blue and Gold may not be longer than 15 minutes, must be NLT 2245, but may be earlier
with Company Commander approval.
1-6
1.9 LIBERTY
1. The primary responsibility of all midshipmen is to develop the habits and skills necessary to
be successful officers, which requires a commitment to excellence in all mission areas, including
moral, mental, and physical. Liberty is not a break from that commitment. Responsible
behavior on liberty is an element of the USNA mission and will often be an opportunity for
midshipmen to further develop their ability to live honorably.
2. Yard Liberty
a. Midshipmen have Yard Liberty anytime they do not have a specific military obligation per
the Daily Battle Rhythm or Brigade Calendar.
b. When on Yard liberty, midshipmen may conduct individual workouts (and depart the Yard
per section 1.5), visit and dine at areas on the Yard, attend Navy sporting events on the Yard,
NSAA Complex, and Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium (NMCMS), and play golf for
leisure (blue over khaki for 4/C). The only authorized “stops” during transit to sporting events at
NSAA and NMCMS are the Yard and the actual sporting venue.
c. Sponsor’s homes, on or off Yard, are not authorized during Yard Liberty.
d. Uniform for Yard liberty will be Uniform of the Day (UOD) or authorized Spirit Gear if
attending a sporting event on the Yard.
3. Eligibility for Weekday and Overnight Town Liberty
a. Eligibility for weekday (bolded font in Table 1-1 and 1-2) and overnight town liberty is the
same, and it is established at 6-week, 12-week, and final grades. Eligibility can be lost at any
time, but can only be regained at one of those three times. At each marking period, the
“weekday/overnight eligible” list shall be posted in company area to enable proper peer
accountability. To be eligible for a “weekday/overnight,” a midshipman must:
(1) CQPR and SQPR of 2.0 or higher.
(2) No academic grades of "F" or more than one "D."
(3) Not on Aptitude or Conduct probation or on Restriction.
(4) Not in a loss of weekend status as imposed by a Letter of Instruction unless approved
by the Issuing Authority or designee.
(5) Passed the most recent semester (official) PFA or subsequent PFA conducted by the
Brigade Training Team (BTT).
b. Company Officers and Senior Enlisted Leaders may restrict weekday liberty privileges at
their discretion (regardless of a midshipman otherwise meeting eligibility requirements).
Battalion Officers may restrict weekend liberty privileges at their discretion.
1-7
On Monday in the fall 1/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the fall 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2300 in civilian attire.
On Wednesday in the fall 1/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Thursday in the fall 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2300 in civilian attire.
On Friday in the fall 1/C midshipmen have liberty from NET 1235- 2359 civilian attire.
On Saturday in the fall 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-2359 in civilian attire.
On Sunday in the fall 1/C midshipmen have liberty from 0800- 1800 civilian attire.
On Monday in the fall 2/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the fall 2/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Wednesday in the fall 2/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Thursday in the fall 2/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Friday in the fall 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2359 in civilian attire.
On Saturday in the fall 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-2359 in civilian attire.
On Sunday in the fall 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-1800 in civilian attire.
On Monday in the fall 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the fall 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Wednesday in the fall 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Thursday in the fall 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Friday in the fall 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Saturday in the fall 3/C midshipmen have liberty from  1200-2359 in UOD.
On Sunday in the fall 3/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-1800 in UOD.
On Monday in the fall 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the fall 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Wednesday in the fall 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Thursday in the fall 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Friday in the fall 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Saturday in the fall 4/C midshipmen have liberty from  1200-2359 in UOD.
On Sunday in the fall 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Monday in the spring 1/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the spring 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2300 in civilian attire.
On Wednesday in the spring 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2300 in civilian attire.
On Thursday in the spring 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2300 in civilian attire.
On Friday in the spring 1/C midshipmen have liberty from NET 1235- 2359 civilian attire.
On Saturday in the spring 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-2359 in civilian attire.
On Sunday in the spring 1/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-1800 in civilian attire.
On Monday in the spring 2/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the spring 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2000 in UOD.
On Wednesday in the spring 2/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Thursday in the spring 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2000 in UOD.
On Friday in the spring 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  1530-2359 in civilian attire.
On Saturday in the spring 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-2359 in civilian attire.
On Sunday in the spring 2/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-1800 in civilian attire.
On Monday in the spring 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the spring 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Wednesday in the spring 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Thursday in the spring 3/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Friday in the spring 3/C midshipmen have liberty from  1800-2359 in* UOD.
On Saturday in the spring 3/C midshipmen have liberty from  1200-2359 in UOD.
On Sunday in the spring 3/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-1800 in UOD.
On Monday in the spring 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Tuesday in the spring 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Wednesday in the spring 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Thursday in the spring 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Friday in the spring 4/C midshipmen do not have liberty.
On Saturday in the spring 4/C midshipmen have liberty from  1200-2359 in UOD.
On Sunday in the spring 4/C midshipmen have liberty from  0800-1800 in UOD.
b. Midshipmen shall request overnight (“weekend”) liberty by signing the “weekend list.”
Company Commanders shall approve the weekend list, but shall be audited weekly by the
Company Officer or SEL. Midshipmen will not depart on weekend liberty prior to Company
Commander approval.
c. All midshipmen must gain approval through a special request chit and informal Operational
Risk Management (ORM) from the Company Officer if leaving a 150-mile radius. If
midshipmen are planning to participate in high-risk activities, they must have a formal ORM
approved by the Commandant Safety Officer via JRAT.
d. A maximum of two additional weekends will be awarded to midshipmen who are
members of the Color Company, on the Superintendent's list, on the Commandant's list, or
achieve a perfect PFA.
e. One additional weekend per semester may be awarded to all eligible members, including
4/C, of a Company's “Color Squad" as well as the respective Platoon Commander and Platoon
Sergeant. The Company Officer will select the Color Squad based on moral, mental, and
physical performance at the end of each academic semester. The competition must be metrics-
based (e.g., QPR average, # of UNSATS, PFA Score, PFA UNSATS, Conduct/Honor offenses,
etc.). The weekend shall be redeemed during the following academic semester.
f. Midshipmen shall return to a duty status for military obligations falling between authorized
commencement and expiration of weekend liberty, including home football games (from
designated end of liberty until the singing of “Navy Blue and Gold”).
g. Additional weekends may be awarded by the Commandant. If the weekend is also deemed
“bankable,” that means it can be used later in the same academic year (either semester).
Bankable weekends do not carry over through the summer. A “Commandant’s weekend”
requires standard weekend eligibility.
6. Holidays
a. Both weekday and weekend liberty is extended when Fridayday or Mondayday is a holiday.
When Fridayday is a holiday, Thursdayrsday will follow the normal Fridayday routine and Fridayday will follow
the normal Saturdayurday routine. When Mondayday is a holiday, all midshipmen are authorized town
liberty on Sundayday from 0800- 2359, and Mondayday will follow the normal Sundayday routine.
b. End of Leave formation will be at 2000 in Service Dress Blues for the return from
Thanksgiving, Winter Break, and Spring Break. All other End of Leave formations will be
designated by the Commandant's Operations Officer.
7. Authority to Grant Additional Liberty:
a. Company Officers and SELs are authorized to grant extensions of normal liberty up to
twelve hours (unless such extension would result in missing an academic class). This extension
is not intended for use as a reward, but rather to provide flexibility to apply sound ORM
practices and to allow reasonable flexibility for special or unforeseen situations. When the CO
1-10
or SEL cannot be reached in a relevant time period, midshipmen should contact the Officer of
the Watch (OOW) for approval.
b. On Sundaydays, when there is no sit-down meal planned for the Brigade, Battalion Officers
may grant extended liberty to 2000 at their discretion.
c. “Class up” liberty and “class up weekend” liberty is defined as granting liberty of the next
higher class in accordance with Table 1-1 and 1-2. For exceptional circumstances on a case by
case basis by special request chit, Company Officers may grant two “class ups” per semester per
midshipman. Battalion Officers may grant an additional two “class ups” and one “class up
weekend” per semester per MIDN. “Class up” does not apply to liberty attire (uniform vs.
civilian clothes).
1.10 SPIRIT PASSES AND SLEEP-INS
1. Spirit passes are to reward midshipmen for demonstrating esprit de corps in support of the
Brigade and their fellow midshipmen.
2. All midshipmen are eligible to use spirit passes except those on restriction or under a Letter of
Instruction that specifies a loss of liberty. There are otherwise no specific academic, physical or
aptitude requirements for eligibility.
3. Spirit passes are granted to the Brigade by the Commandant of Midshipmen and also
individually earned by attending designated events approved by the Commandant.
https://intranet.usna.edu/Commandant/_files/documents/Docs/SPIRIT_PASS_EVENTS.pdf
4. For designated Spirit Pass sporting events, if the “team” wins the event, the team shall be
granted a Spirit Pass. “Individual” wins do not qualify for Spirit Passes.
5. A midshipmen may earn and use up to five (5) spirit passes per semester. Spirit passes carry
over from Fall to Spring, but do not carry over through the Summer. As spirit passes carry over,
MIDN are still limited to using no more than five passes in any one semester (fall and spring
cannot be combined to use 10 passes in the spring). Spirit passes are not transferable from one
midshipman to another. 4/C do not earn spirit passes at “Plebe Priority” events, but upperclass
may still earn spirit passes.
6. Accountability for musters at spirit pass events will have a sign-in a visual ID for attendance,
and the muster roster will then be shared with company leadership. Two and half (2.5) hours or
completion of the event, whichever occurs first, is required for spirit pass credit.
1-11
7. Spirit Pass privileges are defined as:
1/C Fall and Spring: a “buddy pass” to bring one other 1/C (in civilian attire) or 2/C or 3/C (in
uniform) on weekday liberty per weekday liberty hours. Multiple spirit passes may be
used together to “buddy pass” a group of people together.
2/C Fall: One day of Tu/Th liberty, in UOD, from 1530-2000
Spring: One day of Wednesday liberty, in UOD, from 1530-2300
3/C Fall: One day of Fridayday liberty from LMO/NET 1530-2359
Spring: One day of Tu/Th liberty, in UOD, from 1530-2000
4/C Fall: One day of Sundayday liberty from 0800-1800
Spring: One day of Fridayday liberty from 1800-2000
8. Sleep-Ins: Sleep-ins allow unit commanders to reward midshipmen for performance.
a. There are “Warrior Wednesdaynesday” (WW) and “daily” sleep-ins. WWs can only be used on
Wednesdaynesday during rolling tray breakfast. Daily can be used any day of the week.
b. All sleep-ins are “bankable,” but “awarding” and “redeeming” as a two-step process.
Awarding requires active duty staff approval per the table below. Redeeming only requires
midshipman approval at the same unit commander level that awarded the sleep in.
Awarding Authority Matrix
Type of Sleep in To award for this unit Awarding Unit Approval Needed
Commander from
Daily Individuals in each unit SL, PC, CC Company Officer
WW Squad PC CC
WW Platoon CC Company Officer
WW Company Battalion Commander Battalion Officer
WW Battalion, Brigade Brigade Commander DepDant
c. Redemption: Authorization must be requested to redeem an awarded sleep-in.
(1) WW sleep-ins must be redeemed for the entire awarded unit on the same day.
(2) Squad leaders will authorize the redemption of Daily sleep-ins for no more than one
member of their squad per day (including Wednesdaynesdays). King Hall tables need to remain “full.”
(3) WW sleep-ins are authorized by the awarding commander, and may only be approved
for one unit per Wednesdaynesday, e.g., CCs can authorize only 1 platoon sleep in per Wednesdaynesday,
Battalion Commanders can authorize only 1 company sleep in per Wednesdaynesday.
1-12
CHAPTER 2: TABLE OF PRIORITIES
2.1 TABLE OF PRIORITIES
1. Midshipmen shall consult with a cognizant superior in the chain of command to help resolve
conflicts and inform all parties in advance if an obligation is overruled by a higher priority.
1. Orders to report to the Superintendent, Commandant, Deputy Commandants, Provost, or
OOW, in that order. This includes appearing before Academic Boards, Academic Advisory
Boards, Commandant Honor Hearings, Brigade Honor, Aptitude, and Conduct Hearings.
2. Orders to report to the Battalion Officer, CO, SEL, in that order. This includes Battalion-
Level Conduct and Honor adjudications, Striper Boards, and Aptitude Boards.
3. Watch. The only watchstanders permitted to miss class are standing MOOW, AMOOWs
and Duty Drivers. All midshipmen shall make every effort to attend class. Watchbills must
not require a midshipman to miss a scheduled exam. CMOD is a valid excusal for up to 3
tardies per semester. CMOD does not excuse restriction tours.
4. Authorized scheduled medical and dental appointments outside USNA, or appointments at
USNA with outside specialists, and scheduled pre-commissioning/commissioning physicals.
Exams during Academic Reserve and final exams shall not be missed for any elective,
routine, or otherwise non-emergent procedures.
5. Scheduled class attendance, scheduled labs, scheduled physical education tests, and the
PFA.
6. Scheduled appointments at BMU (non-emergency medical treatment)
7. Mandatory formations and meals, career information briefs, Forrestal Lectures, and Sexual
Harassment and Assault Prevention Education (SHAPE) trainings.
8. Scheduled team coach-run practices and meetings per COMDTMIDNNOTE 1710. This
includes only organized, scheduled, coach-run team workouts (not individual workouts or
captain’s practices).
9. Drill, parades, march-ons, Company Officer Training and other mandatory events, to
include weekly 4/C ProKnow.
10. Remedial PE sessions.
11. Scheduled meetings with an academic advisor or scheduled EI with instructors.
12. Tours and restriction musters. If a tour or muster is to be missed for something not
already listed in this table, the MIDN shall obtain concurrence from their CO/SEL and then
obtain permission from the Staff Duty Officer or the OOW.
2-1
13. Intramurals.
14. Scheduled BSA staff-run practices and meetings per COMDTMIDNNOTE 1710.
15. Varsity, Club "A" and junior varsity activities other than scheduled practice or
competitions.
16. BSA activities other than scheduled practice or competitions.
17. Club "B" and intramural activities other than scheduled practice or competitions.
18. Extracurricular activities.
19. Liberty.
Table 2-1
2.2 SPECIAL REQUESTS
1. The right of any midshipman to make a special request of their organizational superiors may
not be denied or restricted. If a midshipman believes special circumstances warrant an exception
to any regulation or directive, they may submit a special request to the appropriate approval
authority to obtain permission.
a. Requests will be forwarded promptly through the chain of command to the appropriate
level for decision. As appropriate, the reason should be stated when a request is not
recommended or approved.
b. No person will, through intent or neglect, fail to act on or forward promptly any request or
appeal which it is their duty to act on or forward.
c. Requests for exchange of duty will be made only between midshipmen fully qualified to
stand each other’s watches and done so with the written acknowledgement of the Company
Adjutant or CDO. Exchanges of duty will be made for at least one full day.
d. A special request chit must be submitted to the approval authority at least three working
days prior to the start of the request. If the request requires Battalion Officer approval, it should
be submitted at least five (5) working days in advance. If the request requires Commandant of
Midshipmen or Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen approval, the request should be submitted
at least seven (7) working days in advance.
e. Midshipmen shall not act on a special request until they have approval as required below.
2. Approval Authority:
a. Commandant of Midshipmen:
2-2
(1) Use of alcohol at any Naval Academy sponsored event except where delegated to the
Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen or Battalion Officer by the Commandant of Midshipmen.
Requestors must complete the Alcohol and Drug Education Officer's (ADEO) special request
chit before submitting requests to be included with the request package.
(2) Any outside employment. See Section 4.4 for applicable rules.
b. Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen: Change of Company for a midshipman. Company
changes shall be in effect through graduation, to include the graduation processions.
c. Battalion Officer:
(1) Special leave requests after consultation with the Associate Provost for Academic
Affairs.
(2) Special liberty requests up to 72 hours.
(3) Regular OCONUS leave requests.
(4) Convalescent leave outside Bancroft Hall.
(5) Excusals from any mandatory Brigade or Battalion level event, to include but not
limited to football games, Distinguished Artist Series, Forrestal Lectures, and Battalion Spirit
Nights.
(6) Participation in inherently hazardous activities (refer to Section 5.1, paragraph 2.g.).
(7) Replacement of a lost/stolen ID card (second occurrence).
(8) Alcohol chits for Battalion and Company level events off-Yard such as football
tailgates, dining in/outs or company picnics.
(9) Conduct of any “Spirit Missions” off the Yard.
d. Commandant Operations Officer:
(1) Special Request Chits from High Risk ECAs.
e. OOW:
(1) Special leave request chits during non-working hours (when Company Officer and SEL
are not present).
(2) Cutting locks in seventh and eighth wing locker spaces at the request of midshipmen
occupying a locker or after consultation with the Commandant of Midshipmen’s Legal Advisor.
2-3
f. Company Officer and SEL:
(1) Missing class for rare and exceptional circumstances outside Table 2-1 situations.
(2) Endorsement to Academic Dean to miss a regularly scheduled examination during end
of semester or academic reserve periods.
(3) Missing TAPS and liberty extensions up to 12 hours for unforeseen circumstances that
require a midshipman to return late. This approval authority is meant to put midshipmen in an
“authorized absence” status instead of being UA while they safely return to USNA.
(4) Special town liberty, including liberty for 3/C and 4/C to attend religious services.
(5) Excusal from military evolutions, including swimming and PE remedials, parades,
intramurals, and formations.
(6) Assess weekend eligibility requirements.
(7) Guests of individual midshipmen to dine in King Hall (O-5 and below).
(8) Authorization to reside in Bancroft Hall during leave periods.
(9) Regular CONUS leave requests.
(10) Replacement of a lost/stolen ID card (first occurrence).
(11) Conduct of “Spirit Missions” on the Yard, outside Bancroft Hall.
(12) Grant one weekend per semester to eligible members of a Color Squad, including the
respective Platoon Commander and Platoon Sergeant.
g. Company Commander:
(1) Workout times earlier than 0545 for Company personnel on an individual basis (not
including 4/C).
(2) Sign-in formations for “special circumstance” (holiday, special event) weekday
breakfast or noon meal formations if meals are rolling tray.
(3) Reservation of the company wardroom for events or meetings.
(4) May authorize platoon/company outings during authorized liberty (this may be
delegated to the Platoon Commander for Squad-level events).
(5) May authorize 3/C or 4/C Midshipmen to wear blue over khaki to outings during
authorized liberty not on the Yard or PT gear for physical events such as paintball where the blue
2-4
over khaki uniform would otherwise be damaged (this may be delegated to the Platoon
Commander for Squad-level events).
(6) Timing of Blue and Gold for 4/C.
(7) Conduct of “Spirit Missions” inside Bancroft Hall.
h. Squad Leader: Carry-on for Squad at meals, consistent with Brigade training.
2.3 MOVEMENT ORDERS AND EXCUSALS
1. An Excusal must be submitted to allow midshipmen to miss normally scheduled events in
order to attend other events happening on the Yard.
2. For accountability purposes, a Movement Order must be submitted in Midshipman
Information Database System (MIDS) to allow midshipmen to miss normally scheduled events
in order to attend other events away from USNA, even during normal liberty time.
a. Movement Orders consider the “Naval Academy” to be the USNA Yard, the Naval
Support Activity Annapolis (NSAA), and Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium.
b. Movement orders and excusals may be created by anyone on the Yard but must be
requested in accordance with the timeline outlined in COMDTMIDNINST 4653.1 (series).
3. Midshipmen shall not depart on Movement Order or participate in an Excusal prior to
obtaining approval from the appropriate approval authorities.
4. If an Excusal or Movement Order has a priority level of “low” or “medium,” then a request to
miss class chit must be signed by all relevant instructors and submitted to the Company Officer.
2-5
CHAPTER 3: INTERPERSONAL CONDUCT
3.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE
1. The Navy has historically relied upon custom and tradition to define the bounds of acceptable
personal relationships among its members and with those outside of the military. Midshipmen
will conduct themselves with the utmost professionalism in all interpersonal interactions in all
settings and at all times. Midshipmen will treat each and every person with dignity and respect.
2. When in doubt, a midshipman should consult their chain of command, a chaplain, or a trusted
mentor for further guidance on acceptable interpersonal interactions.
3.2 HAZING
1. Hazing is a form of harassment that includes conduct through which Service Members or
DoD employees, without a proper military or other governmental purpose but with a nexus to
military Service, physically or psychologically injure or create a risk of physical or psychological
injury to Service Members for the purpose of: initiation into, admission into, affiliation with,
change in status or position within or continued membership in any military or DoD civilian
organization. Hazing can be conducted through the use of electronic devices or communications
and by other means including social media, as well as in person. Soliciting or coercing another
to perpetrate any such activity is also considered hazing. Hazing need not involve physical
contact among or between military members; it can be verbal or psychological in nature. Actual
or implied consent to acts of hazing does not eliminate the culpability of the perpetrator. Hazing,
in any form, is prohibited and will not be tolerated.
2. Regulations regarding hazing:
a. No midshipman may engage in hazing or consent to acts of hazing being committed upon
them. An upperclass asking a Midshipmen 4/C if a certain hazing activity is “ok,” and that 4/C
saying “ok” does not mean the act is permitted. Hazing is hazing based on activity, not based on
consent.
b. No midshipman, regardless of billet or rank, may condone or ignore hazing if they know
or reasonably should have known that hazing may or did occur. Every midshipman has the
responsibility to inform appropriate authorities (CO, SEL, or CMEO) of any hazing incidents or
potential hazing incidents.
c. Reprisal actions against any victim or witness of hazing incidents are strictly prohibited.
d. Physical abuse or harassment will not be tolerated in any form. Physical contact is
allowed with the 4/C only as necessary for specifically approved training purposes, and with
prior consent from the individual being touched. No amount of physical force is condoned.
e. Midshipmen in authority positions over other midshipmen will follow only practices that
would be reasonably and lawfully acceptable for use in the Fleet. All practices should be readily
3-1
defendable with appropriate rationale to the parents of subordinates or other interested
constituencies.
3.3 DISCRIMINATION
1. Prohibited discrimination is discrimination, including disparate treatment, of an individual or
group on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy), gender
identity or sexual orientation that is not otherwise authorized by law or regulation and detracts
from military readiness.
2. Regulations regarding discrimination:
a. Midshipmen will neither individually nor collectively discriminate against another
individual or group.
b. Midshipmen will not take reprisal action against a person who provides information on an
incident of alleged unlawful discrimination. Reprisals are prohibited regardless of who
originates the reprisal action.
c. Midshipmen will not knowingly make a false accusation of unlawful discrimination.
d. Midshipmen will not condone or ignore discrimination and are encouraged to report any
suspected discrimination to their CO, SEL, or CMEO.
3.4 SEXUAL HARASSMENT
1. Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination that involves unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, visual, or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
a. Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of a
person’s job, pay, or career. For midshipmen, this could mean a term or condition of privileges,
selection for billets or training opportunities, or for service assignment preference.
b. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's
performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment. At USNA,
the working environment refers to every location on and off the Yard, 24 hours a day.
2. Sexual harassment includes, but is not limited to, unwelcome sexual advances, requests for
sexual favors, passive or indirect actions that create a hostile work environment such as sexually
explicit posters, pictures, or screensavers, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature.
3. Regulations regarding sexual harassment:
a. Midshipmen will not commit sexual harassment as defined above.
3-2
b. Midshipmen will not take reprisal action against a person who provides information on an
incident of alleged sexual harassment.
c. Midshipmen will not knowingly make a false accusation of sexual harassment.
d. Midshipmen will not condone or ignore sexual harassment and are encouraged to report
any suspected sexual harassment to their CO, SEL, or CMEO.
3.5 FRATERNIZATION
1. Fraternization is a gender neutral concept used to identify personal relationships that do not
respect the bounds of acceptable senior-subordinate relationships. Although it is most
commonly applied to officer- enlisted relationships, fraternization also includes improper
relationships and social interactions between officer members as well as between enlisted
members, regardless of the service affiliation of the other officer or enlisted member, including
members of foreign military services.
2. Circumstances prejudicial to good order and discipline are those that call into question a
senior’s objectivity, result in actual or apparent preferential treatment, undermine the authority of
a senior, or compromise the chain of command.
3. Midshipmen on summer training will adhere to the specific fraternization policies of their
assigned units in addition to all USNA policies.
4. Collective terms associated with fraternization apply equally to personnel of foreign military
services.
3.6 UPPERCLASS – 4/C RELATIONSHIP
1. Due to the unique training environment of the USNA and the essential leadership role
Upperclass Midshipmen hold in educating and training 4/C Midshipmen, Upperclass have a
senior-subordinate relationship with 4/C Midshipmen which must be respected and protected.
2. These regulations apply to all Upperclass-to-4/C Midshipmen. If there is clear and
convincing evidence of a pre-USNA relationship (where members of a pre-existing relationship
enter USNA in different years), the relationship will be permitted, but the current midshipman
must inform their chain of command prior to entry of the other member. The second incoming
midshipman will be placed in, and maintained in, the opposite regiment. The relationship in
Bancroft Hall must remain professional at all times and should not be readily apparent to other
members of the training environment.
3. Upperclass Midshipmen, including international exchange midshipmen, shall maintain a
proper professional relationship with 4/C at all times.
3-3
4. Upperclass Midshipmen shall not:
a. Attempt to personally degrade or humiliate 4/C Midshipmen.
b. Date, have sexual relations, or otherwise fraternize with 4/C Midshipmen (unless they are
in an approved pre-USNA relationship per section 3.6.2 above).
c. Request or direct 4/C Midshipmen to perform personal services, to include purchasing
supplies for Upperclass.
d. Impose any informal or unauthorized punishment.
e. Touch 4/C Midshipmen for any purpose other than correcting or adjusting a uniform, drill
or rifle position, or as necessary for other legitimate training or safety purposes. To the
maximum extent possible and prior to contact, the individual being touched should be informed
of the purpose and nature of the contact.
f. Borrow anything from a 4/C Midshipman, including uniform items.
g. Conduct activities with a 4/C before 0630 unless specifically approved for training. 0535
or 0540 workouts must be approved as part of the training plan.
h. Direct a 4/C to write letters or send emails or messages as a prank.
i. Enter a 4/C room during study period other than to provide academic assistance.
j. Invite a 4/C to enter an Upperclass room.
k. Use any real-time electronic communication with a 4/C unless for professional purposes,
e.g. Brigade recall. This includes, but is not limited to, instant messaging, chat rooms, social
networking sites, texting, or any comparable mode of communication. However, messages
between siblings or other close blood relatives (e.g., first cousins) regarding family matters shall
be considered a professional purpose when an in-person meeting is impractical.
3.7 MIDSHIPMAN – USNA FACULTY/STAFF PERSONNEL RELATIONSHIPS
1. Unduly familiar personal relationships between midshipmen and active duty or civilian
faculty or staff members that do not respect differences in grade, rank, position of authority, or
the staff/student relationship, or are prejudicial to good order and discipline, are prohibited. This
prohibition includes interactions with enlisted personnel during training and leave periods away
from the USNA.
2. Midshipmen dealings with DoD police and Navy Security personnel shall be limited to:
a. Promptly reporting any unlawful acts and acts that pose a physical danger to others. Acts
3-4
of midshipmen that are prejudicial to the maintenance of good order and discipline should be
reported to the OOW.
b. Reporting the presence of any unidentified person found in Bancroft Hall in areas under
the responsibility of a CMOD.
c. Responding to questions or commands of USNA security personnel when those personnel
are in the performance of their assigned duties.
d. Obeying lawful orders given by security personnel.
3. Midshipmen shall not employ the personal services of building attendants.
3.8 MIDSHIPMAN – ENLISTED PERSONNEL RELATIONSHIPS
1. Personal relationships between midshipmen and enlisted members that are unduly familiar
because they do not respect differences in grade, rank, or position of authority, or because they
are prejudicial to good order and discipline, are prohibited.
a. However, clear and convincing evidence of a pre-existing relationship prior to a change in
status of one of the members (e.g., E-4 subsequently becomes a midshipman) will make the
ongoing relationship permissible despite the status change, so long as the members disclose the
relationship to USNA prior to the change in status.
b. The member who becomes a midshipman is required to disclose the relationship on I-Day.
The relationship must be specifically noted and approved by the Commandant of Midshipmen
and the relationship must be disclosed in Section F of the Marriage, Dependent, and Relationship
Declaration form prior to taking the Oath of Office on I-Day. Failure to knowingly disclose any
pre-existing relationship after signing this document may result in conduct action.
c. Midshipmen already at USNA and who are in a pre-existing (pre-USNA) relationship,
will, under this policy, be able to maintain said relationship. They must disclose their
relationship to their chain of command as soon as reasonably practicable. Per OPNAVINST
5370.2 (series), midshipmen who commission into the Navy will be able to maintain their
relationship through commissioning.
d. Midshipmen who commission to the Marine Corps do not have a path to maintain enlisted
relationships. The Marine Corps only allows officer-enlisted relationships if marriage occurred
prior to commissioning (while both members were still enlisted), and as midshipmen are not
allowed to be married prior to commissioning, no officer-enlisted relationship would be
permitted. As such, midshipmen are not permitted to sustain relationships with enlisted Marines.
2. Midshipmen shall:
a. Obey lawful orders given by enlisted personnel acting as instructors.
3-5
b. Maintain a proper professional relationship with enlisted members at all times, regardless
of duty station.
3. Other than relationships that began before arrival at USNA or before the Naval Academy
Preparatory School and properly disclosed midshipmen shall not date, have sexual relations, or
otherwise fraternize with enlisted personnel.
4. Midshipmen are expected to observe appropriate military courtesies with close blood relatives
(e.g., sibling, parent, grandparent, first cousin, aunt, or uncle) and continue to act in a manner
that respects differences in grade, rank, or position of authority while interacting or socializing
with close blood relatives.
5. Midshipmen may have enlisted members act as their sponsors via the Sponsor Program.
3.9 MIDSHIPMAN – OFFICER RELATIONSHIPS
1. Personal relationships between midshipmen and officers that are unduly familiar because they
do not respect differences in grade, rank, or position of authority or because they are prejudicial
to good order and discipline, are prohibited.
2. Midshipmen shall not date, have sexual relations, or otherwise fraternize with commissioned
officers, with the following exception: 1/C and 2/C Midshipmen may maintain pre-existing
close personal relationships with newly commissioned officers provided the relationship was
initially established when both parties were midshipmen.
3.10 MIDSHIPMAN – MIDSHIPMAN RELATIONSHIPS AND CONTACT
1. Unduly familiar personal relationships between midshipmen in the same Company are
prohibited when prejudicial to good order and discipline.
2. Any midshipman who desires to sustain a romantic relationship beyond a “trial period” with
another midshipman in the same Company shall request a transfer to another Company. For this
purpose, the trial period will allow two “dates.” A request to transfer must be submitted before a
third “date” or before sexual relations.
3. Displays of affection are prohibited while in uniform, regardless of location, and at all times
in Bancroft Hall and on the Yard. Displays of affection are defined as physical acts which could
reasonably be interpreted by an observer as evidence that those participating are involved in a
romantic relationship. Displays of affection that midshipmen shall not do include, but are not
limited to, hand holding, touching, massaging/back rubs, sitting on a lap, touching, and kissing.
Displays of affection are gender neutral and considered equally inappropriate regardless of
gender.
4. Sexual activity in an unauthorized location includes, but is not limited to, fondling, displays
of affection on a rack, lying in a rack together, oral sex, and sexual intercourse on the Yard and
aboard naval vessels.
3-6
5. Midshipmen shall:
a. Report displays of affection, sexual activity in an unauthorized location, and sexual
misconduct.
b. Keep room doors fully open at 90 degrees with the lights on when:
(1) In a room, not your own, with none of the assigned occupants present (e.g., CMOD
patrol, leaving a note for a friend, etc.)
(2) Only two people are in a room and one of them is not an assigned occupant
(3) Any assigned occupant present does not agree to having the door closed. Non-assigned
occupants must leave the room at the request of an assigned occupant. The assigned occupant
may make this request for any reason (e.g., assigned member needs to change, take a shower,
needs space, etc.).
(4) Any upperclass is in any 4/C room.
3-7
CHAPTER 4: PERSONAL CONDUCT
4.1 PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE
1. With regard to the wearing of covers, midshipmen shall:
a. Remain covered while under arms: wearing a sword, carrying a rifle, or carrying a guidon.
During indoor training, when guidons are stored and all midshipmen are seated, midshipmen
may uncover.
b. Remain covered when outdoors, including while seated, with exception of the singing of
Blue and Gold.
c. Remain covered while transiting in government vehicles, unless wearing the cover is
impractical or hazardous. As a military courtesy, covers should be worn by the driver of a
POV when entering a military installation to enable a return salute.
d. Remain covered when standing watch, except in Memorial Hall, areas where food is being
served, and areas where religious services are being conducted. When in King Hall, watch
personnel shall remain covered until seated for the meal.
e. CCs may specify the requirement to cover or uncover during indoor uniform inspection
formations.
2. With regard to offering salutes, midshipmen shall render and return salutes and appropriate
greetings as required by proper service etiquette. Exceptions to rendering salutes include:
a. At crowded gatherings or in congested areas, only a midshipman addressing or being
addressed by an officer shall render salutes. While inside NMCMS during football games,
salutes shall not be rendered except to Admirals who are directly speaking with a midshipman.
b. Persons at work or otherwise engaged shall salute only when addressed by an officer and
then only if circumstances warrant.
c. Persons in formation shall salute only on command of the detail leader.
d. Persons operating moving motor vehicles should not render or return salutes. Passengers
in government vehicles will render and return salutes if covered.
3. With regard to rendering honors and other signs of respect, all midshipmen shall:
a. Call “Attention on deck” at first sight of any Senior Officer (O-5 or above, Navy or Marine
Corps) and the OOW anywhere in Bancroft Hall other than administrative spaces.
(1) If within sight or hearing of the call to attention, come to attention and carry on only
when the order is given.
4-1
(2) If standing watch, following the call to attention, approach the officer, salute, and offer
assistance.
b. Show deference to officers at all times by recognizing their presence and employing a
courteous and respectful bearing and mode of speech toward them.
c. Come to attention, unless circumstances make such action impracticable or inappropriate,
when:
(1) Addressed by a senior officer.
(2) An officer or senior enlisted enters their room.
(3) An officer joins the mess.
(4) An instructor, military or civilian, enters or departs the classroom (unless directed
otherwise by the instructor).
d. Walk on the left of officers whom they are accompanying.
4. While at official Naval Academy functions or lectures, midshipmen will:
a. Sit in seats reserved for their particular Company or billet.
b. Conduct themselves in an appropriate manner and not create disturbances.
c. Ask only questions appropriate to the rank of the speaker and the size of the audience.
5. While walking in uniform, midshipmen will not smoke, vape, chew tobacco, eat, drink, or
publicly display affection. Professional escorting with a hand on an elbow (date, family
member, etc.) is allowed.
6. Midshipmen shall follow this guidance on cell phone usage and storage:
a. Midshipmen and Staff should never have a cell phone "protrude" out of any pocket, front
or back. As a test of protrusion, if the color of the cell phone can be determined while in the
pocket, it is protruding.
b. While not in a military formation, midshipmen may carry cell phones in their left hand or
store in a bag/backpack. When saluting, the phone may be placed by the side of their left leg, as
per Navy regulations.
c. When in formation (noon meal formation and football marchover), phones shall not be
visible in front or back pockets. In these situations, midshipmen may not bring their cell phone
or may store their phone in their cover or in a sock under a pant leg.
4-2
d. Phones shall never be carried during uniform inspections or formal parades.
e. “Texting while walking” is NOT permitted in military uniform, indoors or outdoors.
“Talking while walking” is permitted, but phones shall be carried in left hands and lowered to
the left side while rendering salutes and greetings.
f. Only use phones in King Hall for short-term “business” (checking a calendar, etc.).
Phones shall not be used for social media while in King Hall.
7. Midshipmen shall not walk on grass in ceremonial areas.
8. With regard to football games, midshipmen shall:
a. Attend all home football games and the Army-Navy football game.
b. Watch the game only from the designated Brigade seating areas and remain standing from
March-On through Blue and Gold, with the exception of halftime when they may be seated.
Only 1/C Midshipmen who have purchased tickets to home games for their guests and
themselves will be allowed to sit with their guests. Company Officers may approve requests
from 2/C, 3/C, and 4/C Midshipmen to sit with guests.
c. Not bring visitors into the designated seating area.
4.2 PHYSICAL FITNESS
1. Midshipmen shall participate in at least one varsity, club, or intramural sport during each
academic semester.
2. Midshipmen must pass each semester’s (official) PFA and PE course. All personnel who fail
the Fall or Spring PFA or any swim course must participate in Physical Education Department’s
Remedial Programs in accordance with COMDTMIDNINST 6110.3 (series). Midshipmen with
PFA or PE deficiencies who fail to attend remedials will be reported as Unauthorized Absence
(UA).
3. Midshipmen shall not become members, either regular or associate, or accept office in any
intercollegiate athletic association, unless recommended by the Director of Athletics and the
Commandant of Midshipmen and approved by the Superintendent.
4.3 SPIRIT-RELATED ACTIVITIES
1. Spirit-related activities, including cheers, sheet posters, decorations, or skits, will remain
within the bounds of good sportsmanship, good taste, and common decency. Spirit should focus
on our team’s efforts and not tearing down the opposition, and should not be destructive in any
way. “Chirping” or trolling opponent social media accounts with the intent to heckle is strictly
prohibited.
4-3
2. Midshipmen will obtain CO/SEL approval before conducting any spirit-related activity or
“Spirit Mission.”
3. Midshipmen shall not:
a. Deface, destroy, or move any property, including missiles, aircraft, cannons, torpedoes,
sailing vessels, monuments, memorials, items of historical significance, and other decorative art
or objects, unless sanctioned by the Commandant of Midshipmen.
b. Move, lift, or rearrange tables, chairs, or other equipment in King Hall, Dahlgren Hall,
academic buildings, or associated spaces.
c. Block egress from occupied spaces.
d. Conduct spirit-related activities or “Spirit Missions” in underground facilities, spaces, or
tunnels beneath the Yard.
4. With regard to videos posted on the internet:
a. Midshipmen may create videos for morale and expression purposes. However, those
videos must be reviewed through the process outlined below before being posted to any online
website, e.g. YouTube, Instagram, etc.
b. Videos intended for online publication must be in good taste and avoid offensive or
inappropriate behavior that could bring discredit to the Navy or the USNA. When videos are
posted, a disclaimer shall be included, announcing that the video is the personal work of a
particular person/group or persons, and not a USNA or Navy/Marine Corps sponsored video.
The video shall not include any defamatory, libelous, obscene, abusive, threatening, racially or
ethnically discriminatory, or otherwise offensive or illegal information or material. No
inappropriate wear of uniforms may be used in the videos.
c. Videos intended for online publication shall be reviewed by the Company Commander and
Company Officer. ECAs, clubs, and sports shall have their Officer Representative review prior
to posting. When specific questions arise, the MIDN will consult the USNA Public Affairs
Officer.
4.4 FINANCIAL/EMPLOYMENT ACTIVITIES
1. Midshipmen will not, without proper authority, either for themselves or as agents, engage in
any business activity, financial dealing, or introduce any article for the purpose of trade within
the limits of the USNA. Specifically, midshipmen shall not:
a. Engage in any business or commercial financial activity on USNA grounds.
b. Participate in any business or financial activity or represent any company that attempts to
4-4
benefit or generate profit from interacting with members of the Brigade of Midshipmen.
c. Except as provided by the Joint Ethics Regulation, solicit contributions for gifts to a
superior or accept gifts from other persons in government employment (does not apply to parents
who are government employees). Voluntary gifts of nominal value may be made on a special
occasion such as marriage, illness, or retirement.
d. Use government owned equipment or IT resources for commercial or profit-making
activity.
e. Use or permit use of their midshipman position, title, or affiliation with USNA, to endorse
any product, service, or enterprise or given the appearance of DoD/DON endorsement to a non-
federal entity.
2. Midshipmen shall be in an authorized leave status and obtain written permission from the
Commandant of Midshipmen, or Superintendent when applicable, to seek or hold formal outside
employment.
3. Per the Joint Ethics Regulations, midshipmen may not gamble for money by any means,
including online, while physically present on any U.S. Navy installation, including the USNA,
Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium, and Naval Support Activity Annapolis. Midshipmen
may not gamble for money with playing cards, dice, or other apparatus or methods, in violation
of local, state, or federal laws.
4. Midshipmen may not incur debts when there is no reasonable expectation of repaying them.
4.5 VEHICLES AND OTHER PERSONAL POSSESSIONS
1. 1/C Midshipmen may:
a. Own, operate, and maintain an automobile within the Yard, provided they register their
vehicles at the Pass and Tag Office and Commandant Operations, and display decals as directed.
b. Park on the Yard in a properly marked 1/C parking spot per Commandant Operations
permission and per most recent parking notice (COMDTMIDNNOTE 5560), in a paid parking
facility, on private property if given permission by the owner, at the Navy-Marine Corps
Memorial Stadium, or on the Naval Support Activity Annapolis Complex if authorized.
2. 2/C Midshipmen may:
a. Own and operate a personal vehicle in the Annapolis area and follow the most recent
parking notice policy for driving/parking on the Yard.
b. Park in a paid parking facility, on private property if given permission by the owner, or at
the NMCMS or on the Naval Support Activity Annapolis Complex if authorized.
c. Drive a vehicle on the Yard on leave if their family/sponsor family resides on the Yard.
4-5
d. If in a “designated driver” status or if returning after TAPS due to travel delays (not out of
convenience; this is a safety measure to not require MIDN to walk alone from the stadium to the
Yard), park on the Yard overnight until 1000 the next morning. Midshipmen must either call
Main Office (410-293-5001) and have their name entered in the logbook or email
moow@usna.edu to avoid a parking violation.
3. 3/C Midshipmen may:
a. Operate a vehicle while in an authorized leave status, but not drive on the Yard, unless on
leave and their family resides on the Yard.
b. Not maintain an automobile “near” USNA. The first cities where 3/C may store/use
vehicles in a direction away from USNA are Pasadena, Millersville, Crofton, Davidsonville, and
Stevensville. When in these cities or further and on liberty, 3/C Midshipmen may drive their
cars. If a 3/C Midshipman's home of record is closer to USNA than this area, they may drive
their vehicle only in directions away from USNA and then in accordance with this policy.
4. 4/C Midshipmen may:
a. Operate a vehicle while in an authorized leave status, but not drive on the Yard unless on
leave and their family resides on the Yard.
b. Ride in personal vehicles with USNA staff or faculty, official adult sponsors, or their
parents or legal guardians.
c. Ride in personal vehicles during leave periods or when escorting guests to an official
USNA function.
d. Ride in personal vehicles driven by 1/2/C Midshipmen.
e. Not own or maintain an automobile “near” USNA as described by the cities listed in 3/C
privileges above. If a 4/C Midshipman's home of record is within these cities and the
midshipman owns a vehicle, then that midshipman may own and maintain that vehicle but shall
not operate it unless in an authorized leave status.
4-6
5. With regard to the ownership, use, and storage of other forms of transportation:
a. All midshipmen may own a bicycle (only stored in designated storage areas), use public
transportation, operate or ride in government vehicles for official business.
b. Midshipmen may not own, operate, or ride a motorcycle, moped, motor driven bicycle, or
ATV, including in an authorized leave status.
c. Midshipmen may not store electric scooters in Bancroft Hall or operate them on the Yard.
When in a liberty status, midshipmen who rate civilian clothes may rent and ride electric
scooters, but per Maryland law, they must also wear a helmet.
6. Midshipmen may not possess or bring into Bancroft Hall any type of animal.
4.6 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
1. Regarding the use of alcohol:
a. Midshipmen that choose to use alcohol must do so responsibly and abide by all federal,
state, and local laws. If of legal drinking age and in a Yard or Town liberty status:
(1) Upperclass (non-4/C) may consume alcohol at the Naval Academy Club or as a guest
at a staff or faculty residence and may purchase and consume alcoholic beverages as permitted
under federal, state, and local laws.
(2) Upperclass on official training away from USNA may consume or possess alcohol in
accordance with local laws only under circumstances prescribed by competent authority for the
training program.
(3) 4/C of legal drinking age may consume alcohol only when in an authorized leave status
and not residing in Bancroft Hall.
b. Midshipmen shall not:
(1) Provide alcohol to a 4/C Midshipman or any midshipmen under the legal drinking age.
(2) Report to a military obligation under the influence of alcohol. Midshipmen must be
completely free from the effects of alcohol prior to commencing a duty status. In general, 12
hours is an acceptable thumb rule for duty and mandatory Brigade events (Forrestal Lecture,
football games, etc.), and 8 hours is an acceptable thumb rule for come arounds or company
formation, but the standard is to be free of the effects.
(3) Consume alcohol while on duty or on watch.
4-7
(4) Consume alcohol at any USNA sponsored event except with the Commandant of
Midshipmen's written permission or the Battalion Officer's permission per Section 2.2.
(5) Engage in irresponsible drinking, which includes but is not limited to, use of excessive
profanity, aggressive/disrespectful behavior, excessive stumbling/falling down, and vomiting.
(6) Consume alcohol while in a restricted status.
2. Regarding the use of drugs and narcotics:
a. The wrongful use, possession, introduction, distribution, or other willful involvement with
drugs, including narcotics, marijuana, steroids, analogues (designer drugs), natural substances
(e.g. fungi, excretions), chemicals used as inhalants, propellants and/or over-the-counter drugs or
pharmaceutical compounds used to induce intoxication constitutes a serious breach of discipline.
Any of these offenses will result in mandatory processing for separation from USNA and could
result in subsequent action by appropriate civilian authority.
b. Midshipmen shall not:
(1) Possess, abuse, or distribute drugs or drug-abuse paraphernalia;
(2) Possess or use a hookah on the Yard or while in uniform.
(3) Possess or use narcotics, steroids, or controlled substances except as prescribed by a
competent medical authority of the U.S. Armed Forces.
(4) Possess or use of any products derived from the marijuana plant, regardless of the
presence of THC, including but not limited to cannabidiol (CBD) and other hemp products (e.g.,
shampoos, lotions).
(5) Use or possess any prescription drug after the time period for which it was prescribed
or any medicine prescribed for another individual.
c. Midshipman shall report any non-Navy or non-USNA prescription to the Brigade Medical
Officer as soon as possible.
3. Regarding the use of tobacco products:
a. Midshipmen may only smoke and “vape” in the designated smoking area (benches and
butt can) behind Bancroft Hall Seventh Wing, behind Eighth Wing, and behind Levy Center.
b. Midshipmen may not visibly chew tobacco in uniform, unless in Company spaces and in
accordance with Company policy. “Chewing” or using tobacco packets shall not interfere with
normal speech when used in uniform. If a lip bulge or altered speech is detected, then the
midshipman in uniform, by definition, is in violation of this regulation.
4-8
CHAPTER 5: SAFETY AND SECURITY
5.1 PHYSICAL SAFETY
1. Midshipmen shall:
a. Enter and depart the USNA only through attended gates or CAC controlled turnstiles.
b. Enter and depart Bancroft Hall and USNA buildings only through prescribed doors.
c. Wear reflective gear when conducting workouts after sunset and before sunrise, with the
exception of workouts on Ingram Track.
d. Use the “Ritchie Rd/Carvel Drive” route when going to NSAA individually by foot
(anytime road guards are not provided by a larger training group). Baltimore Annapolis Blvd (Rt
648) is too narrow for safe passage of a lone runner or runners. The green path is 4/10 of a mile
longer than the red and shall be used.
5-1
2. At any time, midshipmen shall not:
a. Be present in a residence that is not the primary residence of the principal leaseholder or
owner at times when the principal leaseholder or owner is not also physically present in the
residence. More specifically, midshipmen may not have parents/friends buy/rent condos or
apartments or other dwellings for midshipmen to effectively have “off campus” residences.
b. A midshipman may stay overnight at an approved USNA sponsor’s house when the
sponsor is not present if they obtain written permission from both their sponsor and their
Company Officer.
c. Rent an Airbnb or enter into any other short-term rental agreement for space larger than a
standard occupancy hotel room within a 150-mile radius of USNA without permission from the
Battalion Officer. The Company Officer shall be the approval authority for such rentals outside
a 150 mile radius. Airbnb/VRBO may sometimes be the most economical option for certain
approved movement orders and will be permitted as long as the details are included with the MO
submission.
d. Establish, pledge, or be active members in non-academic fraternities, sororities, or similar
organizations other than those sanctioned by the Commandant of Midshipmen via the ECA list.
e. Visit or patronize any establishment or area listed as “off limits” to members of the armed
services.
f. Endeavor by words, gestures, or otherwise to beg, solicit, or hitchhike a ride in or on any
motor vehicle, unless offered freely on the Yard.
g. Participate in inherently hazardous activities, including but not limiting to: driving 150
miles or greater from USNA, skydiving, hang gliding, scuba diving, automobile racing, bungee
cord jumping, outdoor rock climbing, shooting, mountaineering, all kayaking, rafting, flying,
cliff diving, bull riding, or other activities that pose significant risk of injury to participants,
without permission from the Battalion Officer. Permission is not required for Movement Orders
for a specific high risk activity.
h. Ride skateboards, scooters, roller blades, bikes, or any other wheeled object inside
Bancroft Hall, or at night, except Knee Scooters as directed by appropriate medical personnel.
i. Walk on the elevated “edge” portions between the stairs on both sides of Chauvenet and
Michaelson Halls. Doing so is an unnecessary fall hazard.
3. While on the USNA complex, including NSAA and NMCMS, midshipmen will not:
a. Enter any bodies of water adjacent to the USNA except during sanctioned evolutions.
b. Talk or text on a handheld phone while driving. Hands free technology is acceptable.
5-2
c. Wear in-ear headphones while conducting physical training outdoors, except while on
Ingram Track or Hospital Point.
d. If in military uniform (“Blue and Golds” is not a military uniform), wear any type of
headphones anywhere other than in a midshipman’s room or study classroom, not wear any type
of headphones in King Hall at any time regardless of uniform, and not wear headphones between
0700-1730 on weekdays in company area passageways and transit areas. Midshipmen must be
able to hear “attention on deck” and also hear greetings from staff and officers during the
workday.
e. Climb on the roofs or ledges of any building, including the Mahan Hall clock tower or
Chapel bell tower.
f. Sit on windowsills, lean out of open windows, or hang items outside of the windows of any
building to avoid creating “missile” hazards.
g. Remove screens or inhibitors from the window of any building.
h. Connect power cords to items in locked closets or modify the electrical wiring in any
building.
i. Keep flammable materials items in any rooms, except for cleaning supplies and lighters.
5.2 MILITARY IDENTIFICATION (COMMON ACCESS CARDS (CAC))
1. CACs are the property of the U.S. Government.
a. Midshipmen shall:
(1) Maintain custody of their CAC at all times and only surrender it to a proper authority
for identification or investigation.
(2) Keep their CAC on their person at all times but should stow it from plain sight.
(3) Report to Midshipmen Personnel (MIDPERS) to replace their CAC when the condition
deteriorates due to normal wear and tear.
(4) Submit a special request chit to replace a lost/stolen/damaged(non-functioning) CAC to
their Company Officer (first occurrence) or their Battalion Officer (second occurrence) and
report to MIDPERS to replace it.
b. Midshipmen shall not:
(1) Have in their possession more than one CAC.
(2) Alter their CAC, possess a false or unauthorized military identification card; possess
5-3
any identification card that has been mutilated, erased, or altered; or possess any identification
card bearing false or inaccurate information regarding a name, grade, service number, or date of
birth.
(3) Give or loan a CAC or any other identification document to any unauthorized person.
(4) Use or possess false identification of any kind.
(5) Make or allow others to make photocopies or duplicates of a military identification
card or CAC, even at explicit request, except as permitted by DoDI 1000.13 (for medical
purposes).
5.3 GOVERNMENT OWNED PROPERTY
1. With regard to government owned property, midshipmen will not:
a. Conceal or fail to report to proper authority the loss, removal, destruction, or damage of
government property entrusted to their care or custody.
b. Remove without proper authority from its regular place of stowage or location any article
of government property, including first aid equipment, lifesaving or emergency equipment, and
stores and foodstuffs.
c. Have in their possession any article of government property except as may be necessary
for the performance of their duty or as authorized by proper authority.
d. Place names, designs, or marks except for official identification on any items furnished by
the government.
2. Working through their Company First Lieutenant, midshipmen shall fill out and turn in a
Room Discrepancy Sheet at the beginning of each Academic Year. Midshipmen shall report any
loss of or damage to items listed on the aforementioned sheet. Failure to do so may result in
financial liability for room damages.
3. With regard to government owned vehicles, midshipmen shall:
a. Operate a government owned vehicle only when specifically designated to do so, and then
only for official business.
b. Comply with all post, station, local, state, and Federal laws and regulations.
c. Ride in government vehicles for official business only.
5.4 COMPUTER USE AND REGULATIONS
1. Each midshipman assumes the responsibility to operate computers within legal and ethical
boundaries of any networks on or off the Yard.
5-4
a. Midshipmen shall:
(1) Abide by all copyright laws extended to computer programs, software, and
documentation. Federal regulations regarding the use of government property apply to
computers, information systems, and Internet resources at the USNA. Midshipmen must adhere
to the Privacy Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-579) and the Freedom of Information Act, which
governs the collection and dissemination of information on individuals.
(2) Use their legal name, alpha code, or billet as a username login for all computer
networks established on USNA resources.
(3) Safeguard files containing private information about individuals.
(4) Keep a record of serial numbers for issued computer equipment.
(5) Use web cameras in an appropriate manner and only while the owner is seated in front
of the camera. When not in use, laptops should remain closed with web cameras turned off.
b. Midshipmen shall not:
(1) Generate, store, send, or forward obscene, questionable, frivolous, or illegal material
via a government computer or network system.
(2) Use Brigade or Class-wide email distribution lists except as it pertains to their billet or
ECA responsibilities.
(3) Transfer, loan, or copy vendor-developed software on multi-user computers.
(4) Install site-licensed software on systems not covered by the specific license agreement.
(5) Use, access, alter, or copy another person’s files, programs, or software without that
person’s express consent.
(6) Use government owned equipment or IT resources for commercial or profit-making
activity. Midshipmen may track their own personal finances (budget, invest, etc.), but may not
use their government for any type of “personal business” (selling on Amazon, mail orders, etc.).
(7) Trap or report user information without warning other users and giving the users the
opportunity to leave the program before trapping begins.
(8) Loan user accounts or provide their login credentials to any other person.
(9) Deliberately alter or disrupt system performance.
(10) Violate network security systems or break into or attempt to break into computer
systems to which access is normally denied.
5-5
(11) Intentionally sabotage, intercept, modify, or illegally monitor network or PC
performance.
(12) Obtain or distribute illegal copies of music or video files.
(13) Establish or use personal computers as servers with accessibility outside of the
USNA.
(14) Physically connect an Apple computer to any government network.
5.5 PERSONAL SECURITY
1. Midshipmen shall: Keep their address and telephone number updated in MIDS and Navy
Family Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS).
2. Midshipmen shall not:
a. Knowingly deliver official correspondence, forms, or records within their custody or
control, or divulge the contents of such correspondence, forms, or records to any person not
authorized to receive them.
b. If having access to information to carry out the duties of their billet or position, divulge
that information to any person not privy to the same information through their billet or position.
c. Have in their personal possession keys to access controlled spaces within Bancroft Hall
unless such key is used in the performance of regularly assigned duties.
d. Distribute questionnaires or surveys to the Brigade of Midshipmen without getting
approval from the officer in charge of the prospective polling group (Company Officer, Battalion
Officer, Commandant’s Operations Officer to poll the Brigade). Each approving authority will
check for inadvertent collection of PII or other data that should not be consolidated.
e. Make inappropriate videos or photographs.
5-6
CHAPTER 6: CLASS RATES
6.1 BRIGADE WIDE RATES
1. All classes shall:
a. Not use the center doors when entering/exiting the Rotunda other than ceremonial duties.
b. Rate the privileges as noted in Table 6-1.
Use Smoke Use Main Use Outer Become a member Use 3/C Use 2/C Doors
Hall Center Center Alleyway in of the Naval Ladders in and Ladders in
Doors Alleyway in King Hall Academy Club Bancroft Hall Bancroft Hall
King Hall (NABSD)
1/C Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
2/C Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
3/C No Yes No Yes Yes No
4/C No Yes No Yes No No
Table 6-1: Class Rates
6.2 ADDITIONAL 1/C MIDSHIPMEN RATES
1. 1/C Midshipman may move out of Bancroft Hall during spring intersessional leave with
CO/SEL approval. They may also choose to remain in Bancroft Hall until graduation.
a. 1/C Midshipmen must attend all mandatory obligations until graduation or they shall be
required to move back into Bancroft Hall. Additionally, if midshipmen are found guilty of
significant misconduct after moving out of Bancroft Hall, they may be directed to move back
into Bancroft Hall.
b. 1/C Midshipmen may enter a lease agreement following spring break of 1/C year.
Midshipmen shall not reside in the residence until the authorized check-out date.
6.3 4/C MIDSHIPMEN RATES
1. 4/C Midshipmen shall
a. Chop and square corners except when in administrative spaces, service shops, basement
areas, the post office, and 7th wing gym. 4/C will chop from 0630-2000, Mondayday through
Saturdayurday, and from EOL-2000 on Sundayday.
6-1
b. Not use the Company Wardroom except for storage of perishable items in the refrigerator
and in-company training approved by the Company Commander.
c. Not have civilian clothes.
d. Not use their personal electronic devices to function as a television, video game device, or
any other entertainment (including social media) except during authorized Town Liberty times.
4/C may use their device with headphones (per section 5.3.d) for audio (music, audiobooks, etc.)
and prescribed classwork and professional training every day of the week. When working out,
they may not use headphones at any time.
e. In Bancroft Hall and on the Yard:
(1) Have a cover with them when wearing a uniform that requires a cover and “Plebe”
their cover when not wearing it. 4/C may hold covers as they wish while off the Yard on town
liberty.
(2) Know daily rates, including, but not limited to the days, menus for the next three
meals; names and billets of the OOW, SDO, MOOW for the current day, four-stripers and above;
professional topic of the week; conversational knowledge of past professional topics; and
conversational knowledge of three current news articles (international, national, and sports).
(3) Attend one sporting event on the Yard each week (between Mondayday and Sundayday).
When a “Plebe Priority” event is directed, they shall attend the priority event unless they have a
valid excusal. If they have a valid excusal, they shall attend an alternate event of their choosing.
(4) Not intentionally sleep anywhere other than their racks.
(5) Be permitted to carry-on only in 4/C rooms, heads, the library, sporting events, and in
academic buildings.
(6) Not use curved walkways in the ceremonial area (Moffett and Chambers Walk, etc.)
(7) Not “carry on” in King Hall during normal and rolling tray meals unless granted by the
highest ranking 1/C Midshipman at the table. In this regard, “carry on” is defined as: Rating the
back of the chair and speaking freely.
(8) Only return to their racks from 0755-1145, 1330-1520, and after signing TAPS
Mondayday through Fridayday.
f. Following completion of Herndon, 4/C gain “permanent” carry-on, but remain MIDN 4/C.
They do not earn 3/C privileges until the hat toss at graduation.
6.4 3/C MIDSHIPMEN RATES
a. Following completion of Severn Shellback, 3/C rate civilian clothes when on town liberty.
6-2
CHAPTER 7: UNIFORMS AND APPEARANCE
7.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE
1. Unless otherwise noted, Navy uniforms shall be worn per COMDTMIDNINST 1020.3
(series) at all times. Each member of the Naval Service is a representative of the U.S.
Government, and their dress and conduct should reflect credit upon oneself, the USNA, the
Naval Service, and the country. Midshipmen are expected to be in an inspection ready uniform
at all times and are required to pass a weekly uniform inspection.
2. Midshipmen shall not, at any time:
a. Have body alterations, tattoos, body art, brands, body piercings, or dental ornamentation
located anywhere on the body that are prejudicial to good order, discipline and morale, or are of
a nature to bring discredit on the Naval Service. Tattoos/body art that are obscene, sexually
explicit, anti-American, anti-social, and/or advocate discrimination based on sex, race, religious,
or ethnic origins are prohibited. In addition, tattoos/body art that symbolize affiliation with
gangs, supremacist or extremist groups, or advocate illegal drug use are prohibited. With regard
to body alterations and tattoos, midshipman shall:
(1) Route a chit (Appendix 3) through their Battalion Officer prior to attaining any types of
body alterations, tattoos, or body art.
(2) Ensure tattoos/body art are in accordance with USNAINST 6240.10 (series), to include
content, size and location.
(3) Keep covered all body alterations required to be removed until the removal process is
complete.
b. Grow mustaches, beards, or other forms of facial hair. If a midshipman is diagnosed with
Pseudofolliculitis Barbae, they will comply with BUPERSINST 1000.22 (series), NAVPERS
1000/1, NAVADMIN 064/22, and the following regulations:
c. PT without a shirt on.
3. Female midshipmen shall be allowed to have a single earring per earlobe. Spacers count as an
earring.
4. Midshipmen Black N Sweater/Society:
a. Midshipmen who have received the Black N Sweater are allowed to wear their sweater on
the Yard only and only on Halloween night.
b. Members of the “Black N Society” who would like to wear their Black N sweater, will be
mandated by the Conduct Chain of Command to hold a Noon Meal training with their respective
companies at least one week prior to Halloween Dinner to educate their peers on the mistakes
7-1
they have made, as well as the lessons they have learned and the importance of ownership and
integrity. Following the completion of this training, Company Conduct Officers will submit the
names of those wishing to wear the “Black N” on Halloween up to their Company Officer, via
the Brigade Conduct/Aptitude Officer, for final approval.
7.2 AUTHORIZED UNIFORMS
Class Ceremonial MidStore King Hall Workout USNA Academic
Areas Gyms Services^ Buildings,
(see note) Nimitz
UOD Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A Yes Yes
NWU When When When When Yes When Yes
UOD, UOD, UOD, UOD, UOD,
*Medical, *Medical, *Medical, *Medical, *Medical,
or Duty or Duty or Duty or Duty or Duty
Blue and *Medical After 1730 *Medical, Yes for Yes *Medical, After 1730
Golds After 1730 Dinner, Dental
(Marketplace) *Medical surgery
Regulation *Medical Herndon Never Never Yes Never Never
PE Gear
Spirit Gear Never Specific After 1730 Specific After 6th Never Never
(Upperclass) cases only (Marketplace) cases only Period
Civilian Never Per Class Per Class 1/C & 2/C, Per Class Per Class Per Class
Clothes Rates when Rates when Friday-Sunday on Rates when Rates when Rates when
on liberty on liberty liberty on liberty on liberty on liberty
*Medical = approved if medical chit specifying that specific uniform, approved by the CO/SEL
and a copy (hardcopy or electronic) with the midshipman.
USNA Services = Dental, MIDPERS, Uniform Store, NFCU Bank, MWR, and the Post Office
Counter require UOD. Blue and Golds or higher are permitted at all times at the Brigade
Medical Unit, Ortho, and Barber Shop/Salon.
1. The authorized uniforms for midshipmen outside of Company Area during working hours
(0630-1730) are the Uniform of the Day, Working Uniform, or Regulation PE gear. The
“Brigade Intramural Champions” t-shirt awarded semi-annually to the company with the highest
Brigade intramural standing may be worn in lieu of regulation PE gear during the semester
following its presentation. The tunnels under Chauvenet and Michelson are considered passage
to/from other areas, therefore uniforms for other areas are permitted in the tunnels for passage.
2. “Spirit Gear” is Navy, USMC, or USNA related (Company, ECA, etc) attire and may be
accompanied by “open toe” shoes only before 0630 and after 1730 and only when in Company
Areas. Outside of Bancroft Hall, spirit gear always requires closed toe shoes. Spirit gear
clothing must be in good condition (no tears or ripped clothing), and tank tops are specifically
not allowed.
7-2
3. Teams with designated practice uniforms may wear the practice uniform to, during, and from
practice only. Midshipmen varsity and club athletes will wear regulation PE gear or “Spirit
Gear” any time they are not directly involved in a team activity. Team gear is permitted in
NAAA weight rooms, but not in Bancroft weight rooms. Issued intramural uniforms are to be
worn to, during, and from intramural games only.
4. Blue and Gold Jogging Suits may be worn to class only when absolutely necessary for a
physical injury (approved medical chit required and will be kept on person) and when transiting
to and from surgery off of the Yard. If midshipmen can walk unassisted, they shall NOT transit
T-Court, Stribling Walk, or the ceremonial areas of the Yard in Blue and Gold Jogging Suits.
5. If midshipmen require crutches, a knee-scooter, wheelchair, or other ambulatory equipment,
they should still be in NWU if possible, but if NWU is not practical based on their medical
status, these rare cases may transit all areas in Blue and Gold to facilitate timely class attendance.
Scooters must be kept at/below walking speed.
6. While in transit and/or attending class, Service Dress with Relaxed Fit (“Ike”) jacket may
only be worn by midshipmen on a weekday duty status that require Service Dress Blue.
Brassards are not required in this uniform.
7. Midshipmen shall not conduct physical training in any of the ceremonial areas. The
ceremonial area is shown below and includes:
Porter Road, Stribling Walk (bounded by
Bancroft Hall T-Court, Chauvenet Hall,
Michelson Hall, Sampson-Mahan-Maury
Halls, Larson Hall, and the Chapel), the
portion of Decatur Rd. adjacent to Leahy
Hall and the Museum and Truxtun Rd. in
front of the Naval Academy Club, and the
perimeter of Worden Field
The approved physical route for these
activities is around the perimeter of these
boundaries and includes the road behind
the Naval Academy Club, the road behind
Larson Hall and the Chapel, and the roads
behind Porter Rd. and Upshur/Rodgers Rd.
housing.
8. Eight-point covers are required for all midshipmen at all outdoor formations. Yard Patrol
(YP) ball caps are authorized for YP midshipmen when not at outdoor formation. Midshipmen
assigned Surface Warfare and Submarines may wear ship ball caps in coveralls and NWU when
not at outdoor formation.
7-3
9. Sundaybathing is only allowed on Hospital Point in locations that do not interfere with organized
practices or individual workouts, must occur in issued USNA swimgear, and with a towel (no
mattresses, blankets, or pillows).
10. Midshipmen shall not fish or loiter on the Farragut Fields rocky seawall.
7-4
CHAPTER 8: BANCROFT HALL CUSTOMS AND MIDSHIPMEN FACILITIES
8.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE
1. Midshipman rooms are common barracks and, as such, Midshipmen are expected to maintain
rooms in a condition that reflects the high standards of cleanliness and professionalism
exemplified by officers in the Fleet. Privacy, while respected in a professional sense, is still
limited.
2. Midshipmen shall not maintain personal belongings or other articles in any locker, closet, or
space in Bancroft Hall that is not regularly assigned to them unless receiving permission from
proper authority. Overheads (ceilings) and ECA spaces are not authorized for personal gear.
3. Midshipmen shall not enter or use any space which is locked or known to be restricted except
as authorized.
4. Midshipmen shall not use elevators anywhere on the Yard unless:
a. They are in Nimitz Library.
b. They are in possession of a medical chit authorizing the use of elevators or given crutches
or a mobility scooter. Midshipmen on crutches shall not use stairs as it is unsafe to do so.
c. They are in an academic building after 1730.
d. They are escorting/talking with faculty or staff.
e. They are moving heavy or delicate lab equipment in an academic building that is best
moved in an elevator.
f. They are in Bancroft Hall transporting wheeled recycling bins, wheeled trash bins, or other
heavy or bulky items per responsibilities assigned to their Duty Section or during designated
move-in periods. Elevator doors shall not be held open as they will “trip offline” and require a
reset that is not available after hours.
5. Midshipmen shall:
a. Occupy their assigned room and live with at least one other midshipman.
b. Maintain rooms in a neat and orderly condition at all times and in Bravo condition when
unoccupied.
c. Keep a personal computer while a member of the Brigade.
d. Secure all valuables, prescription medicine, and swords in their confidential locker. Each
midshipman is responsible for keeping their confidential locker locked at all times.
8-1
e. Report all discrepancies to their company First Lieutenant.
f. Knock and await acknowledgment before entering another person's room.
g. Dispose of their room trash at nearby dumpsters everyday to avoid unsanitary conditions
that can attract bugs and rodents.
h. Keep all food in airtight containers.
i. Display only white sheets, white pillowcases, and a white shower curtain.
j. Possess only furniture issued by the First Lieutenant, except as noted below in paragraph
8.1.6.d.
k. Ensure all material on personal bulletin boards is in good taste.
l. Maintain locker stowage per COMDTMIDNINST 1020.3 (series) (uniform regs) for Class
A inspections.
6. Midshipmen may:
a. Lay wet athletic gear in the corridor between 1730 and 0700. A drying rack may be placed
in the passageway immediately outside of a midshipman’s room between 1730 and 0700.
b. Lock their doors at night once all assigned members are present and when all occupants
are absent during a leave period.
c. Have two blenders per wardroom (and shall be cleaned after each use).
d. Have the following items in their room:
(1) One flame retardant flag, per occupant, may be hung from the bulkhead using approved
Command strips. Command strips must be removed annually. Pre-Authorized flags are:
American flag, Brigade of Midshipmen flag, Navy or Marine Corps flag, Navy Jack, current U.S.
State flag, or country of origin flag for 4-year foreign exchange midshipmen. Any other flags
require CO/SEL approval.
(2) One stand or bookcase measuring no more than 36 inches tall, 24 inches wide, and 20
inches deep.
(3) A solid navy blue or black bath mat.
(4) A personal office chair (if approved by CO/SEL), but the standard issue chair must
remain in the room and all chairs issued by the Company First Lieutenant remain accountable
items.
8-2
(5) One drying rack, no larger than 48 inches tall, 36 inches wide, and 20 inches deep.
(6) Two potted plants in their room. Each pot must be 12" or less in diameter, and plants
are limited to 12" in height from where it exits the pot. Midshipmen must keep their plants clean
(no soil or water spillage) to meet Class B and Class A room standards. All plants must be
removed before summer moveout. Any final move-out room inspection will be UNSAT if a
plant is present. Plants cannot be thrown away because it will exceed the capacity of trash
pickup and is not meant for landfill in the state of Maryland. Midshipmen must have plans for
summer plant storage if they chose to maintain plants in their room.
(7) Personal fans, but they may not be placed “in” any windows.
(8) Coffee makers and water heaters with automatic shutoff features.
NOTE: COs/SELs may approve special request chits for one compact “energy star”
refrigerators, no larger than 3.4 cubic feet, per 1/C room. CO/SEL may also approve up to 20
more total refrigerators per company for 2/C and 3/C Midshipmen, with medical/dietary needs
taking priority. 4/C may be authorized a refrigerator only for medical/dietary need, and shall
count against the 20 extra per company.
7. Midshipmen will not:
a. Put posters, unapproved flags, blankets, sheets, LED light strips, or unapproved adhesives
(glue, permanent velcro, permanent stickers) of any kind on bulkheads or hang them from the
ceiling in any manner. Desk cork boards and “command strip” brand fasteners installed and
removed per instructions are the only approved methods for hanging anything on a bulkhead.
b. Structurally alter rooms (e.g., drill holes in bulkheads; remove ceiling tiles; remove,
tamper, or bend installed rack (bed) rails, etc.) or damage/alter room furnishings (e.g., remove
desk non-skid strips, damage or alter issued chairs, etc.).
c. Store or hang items in/from the overheads, cut or remove ceiling tiles, or hang items from
ceiling tiles or rack (bed) rails. “Rack Curtains” of any style are not authorized.
d. Play music loud enough to be heard outside the room. Be considerate of others.
e. Possess the following items in Bancroft Hall:
(1) Explosives, fireworks, ammunition, candles, or highly flammable materials other than
cleaning supplies or hygiene related liquids.
(2) Firearms, switchblades, dangerous weapons, tasers, or compressed air or CO2
projectile weapons.
(3) Alcohol, empty alcohol containers, unauthorized drugs, unauthorized prescription
medicines, or other controlled substances.
8-3
(4) Space heaters or air conditioning units.
(5) Irons without automatic shut-off protection.
(6) Pornographic materials.
(7) Floor lamps or rugs other than an approved bath mat.
(8) Electrical cooking appliances (hot plates, rice cookers, toaster ovens, etc.)
8.2 USE OF MIDSHIPMAN FACILITIES
1. “Midshipman facilities” refers to all athletic, academic, or recreational facilities (Mitscher)
authorized for midshipman use.
2. While in academic and recreation buildings, midshipmen shall not:
a. Escort unofficial guests.
b. Sit on the decks of hallways or the ladders of academic buildings.
c. Enter or use spaces without proper authorization, particularly laboratories that are normally
secured during off-hours.
3. While in athletic facilities:
a. Midshipmen may use authorized facilities only during their hours of operation, and as
specified by the table of priorities.
b. Midshipmen shall follow all rules and regulations pertaining to a specific venue, including
using towels when exercising, weight lifting, racking weights after use, and properly stowing all
equipment.
c. Midshipmen shall not swim in any facility except during authorized times and in the
presence of a USNA-certified lifeguard.
4. Midshipmen may hang hammocks only on Hospital Point.
5. With regards to the Naval Academy Club:
a. 1/C Midshipmen may become members and use the club facilities during approved periods
of Yard and Town liberty, and leave.
b. 2/C, 3/C, 4/C Midshipmen may use the Naval Academy Club during town liberty or while
on leave only as the guest of their sponsors, immediate family members, or staff members.
Midshipmen may route special request chits to accompany sponsors, immediate family members,
8-4
or staff members when not on town liberty.
c. Uniform will be authorized liberty attire appropriate to class.
6. With regards to Smoke Park:
a. Midshipmen may use Smoke Park for leisure, study, and meeting with friends and family.
It is also a venue for Battalion, Company, team or ECA gatherings, and is used for formations.
Smoke Park is to be respected as a Brigade common space as well as a location open to use by
the general public. Midshipmen shall not play contact sports, litter, or smoke in this area.
b. Midshipmen shall be in the Uniform of the Day or PT Gear while in Smoke Park during
working hours. After working hours, Spirit Gear is authorized, per MIDREGS.
8.3 KING HALL
1. King Hall is the Brigade's wardroom. While in King Hall, midshipmen are expected to
address each other in a civil manner with a conversational tone, observe service etiquette, and
maintain proper military bearing.
2. Midshipmen shall:
a. Request permission from the Squad Leader or most senior individual to join the mess if
late or from a different Squad.
b. For Brigade meals, remain seated until excused by the Squad Leader or most senior
individual at the table.
3. Midshipmen shall not:
a. Eat any food until the order “seats” is given, throw food, or remove food items from
unoccupied tables.
b. Enter the staff areas (galley) or use King Hall as a passageway during non-meal hours.
c. Remove silverware, serving containers, or reusable food items from King Hall.
d. Place backpacks in any location other than the outermost walkway (windows and exterior
walls). Putting backpacks anywhere between tables is a trip hazard to King Hall employees and
delays food service.
8.4 MIDSHIPMAN ROOM INSPECTION STANDARDS
1. Alpha Condition. Midshipmen rooms will be subjected to formal inspection at least one time
each semester. Formal inspections will comply with the inspection standards of Alpha Condition
listed in Appendix 1.
8-5
2. Bravo Condition. This condition will be maintained whenever the room is not occupied.
Rooms shall be inspected per Appendix 2 at least weekly.
8.5 SHARED COMPANY SPACES
1. Bancroft Hall, a National Treasure, is the cornerstone of this great institution and midshipmen
will treat Bancroft Hall and all facilities as they would their own home.
2. Company wardrooms are meant to serve as a common space for Upperclass Midshipmen to
relax and study. 4/C Midshipmen will not lounge in the wardroom unless specifically authorized
by competent authority. Midshipmen may reserve the wardroom for official functions or class
meetings with the approval of the Company Commander.
3. Midshipmen are responsible for reading and abiding by all directives and policies made by
company leadership. Directives and policies will be available to the Company physically or
electronically for reference.
4. 1/C are responsible for a neat and orderly appearance of the halls within their Company area.
8.6 LAUNDRY ROOMS
1. The laundry rooms are provided by NABSD contract and users must adhere to established
standards to ensure continued availability and use. Washers and Dryers operate on a “first come,
first served” basis with no priority privilege by class during authorized times.
2. Midshipmen will maintain the laundry rooms in an orderly fashion and remove their laundry
as soon as it is finished washing or drying. Abandoned items will be discarded.
3. Color dyeing of clothing or articles and washing of painted sheet signs are prohibited.
8.7 SEVENTH AND EIGHTH WING LOCKERS
1. 1/C, 2/C, and 3/C Midshipmen shall:
a. Occupy only one locker and identify it by posting their name, alpha code and company.
--
Midshipmen with double lockers may have their property confiscated.
b. Be responsible for their personal property and lock their locker when not present. All gear
left adrift will be discarded.
2. 4/C Midshipmen will not store items in 7th or 8th Wing lockers.
3. No food is allowed to be stored in the lockers.
8-6
8.8 BICYCLE STORAGE ROOMS
1. Midshipmen will keep all bicycles in designated bicycle storage rooms. Authorized storage
rooms include: 8th Wing Mezzanine Brigade Bike Room (8M32C), Battalion Bike Rooms
(3019, 5040, 7004, 4015, 6040, 8003), and Company Bike Rooms (2014, 4037, 4040, 4046,
5412J).
2. Midshipmen may not store bicycles in any space not designated as a bicycle storage room.
8.9 STEERAGE & DRYDOCK
1. 1/C, 2/C, and 3/C Midshipmen may sit down or take-out food in Steerage in spirit gear.
2. 4/C Midshipmen may take-out food in Steerage.
3. All Midshipmen may take-out food in Drydock. Drydock requires UOD until 1730 on
workdays. On workdays after 1730, 4/C may wear Blue and Golds and upperclass may wear
spirit gear. On weekends, Blue and Golds or better is required for all classes (no spirit gear on
weekends).
8-7
CHAPTER 9: ADMINISTRATION
9.1 REQUIRED READING
1. All midshipmen shall subscribe/gain access to the Brigade Google Calendars (the Brigade
calendar and applicable Class calendar), review each day, and are responsible for attending the
mandatory events outlined therein.
2. All midshipmen shall review the following publications within two weeks after returning for
reform or when assuming a new billet:
a. Midshipmen Regulations.
b. Midshipman Training Program
c. Uniform Regulations.
d. All instructions pertaining to their billet.
e. Administrative Performance and Conduct System Manual.
f. Brigade Honor Program Instruction.
g. Midshipmen Aptitude for Commissioning System.
h. All available Battalion and Company policies and instructions.
9.2 LEAVE PROCEDURES
1. CONUS Regular Leave
a. Midshipmen will ordinarily be authorized leave during the summer, Thanksgiving holiday,
winter holidays, Spring Break, and at other times designated by the Commandant of
Midshipmen.
b. All midshipmen going on leave must:
(1) Submit a MIDS leave request no less than one week prior to the start of leave. In order
to ensure proper accountability, leave chits must be submitted and approved for all summer
periods when a midshipman is not on approved training or travel orders and is not residing in
Bancroft Hall. If participating in 5.1.2.g or similar high-risk activities, an approved ORM
worksheet submitted via Joint Risk Assessment Tool to the Commandant’s Safety Officer (under
Commandant Operations) must accompany the leave chit during initial routing.
(2) Update leave address information in MIDS two days prior to the start of leave.
9-1
(3) Not depart until after the last military obligation, including exams and classes.
(4) Sign out with the CO, SEL, Company Commander, or CDO directly before departure.
(5) Possess an electronic or hard copy of their leave chit at all times while in a leave status.
(6) Have sufficient funds available to purchase commercial airline tickets if using military
flights during the leave period.
(7) Inform the Company Officer, SEL, or the OOW if they encounter a problem while on
leave or if requesting to return late from leave.
(8) 3/C and 4/C Midshipmen shall not wear civilian clothes on the USNA complex during
leave periods unless their family resides on the Yard and they are in an approved leave status.
3/C and 4/C Midshipmen whose families reside on the Yard will wear the Uniform of the Day
when departing from, returning to, or visiting Bancroft Hall while in a leave status.
2. OCONUS Regular Leave
a. The midshipman OCONUS leave procedures are in effect for all types of leave travel during
the entire calendar year. Official international travel coordinated by the International Program Office
is not governed by this instruction. Other USNA entities (clubs, BSAs, Varsity Sports) may also
coordinate international travel, and those activities may leverage elements of this instruction, but they
are not bound by it.
b. Responsibility for properly documented (hardcopy or electronic) OCONUS travel
requirements that results in approved travel for personal leave rests solely with the midshipman who
desires to travel. Many of the required processes take time to review and submit, and if those
requirements are not met, midshipmen will not be permitted to travel (even if they have spent money
on travel already). This section does not apply to International Programs sanctioned travel.
c. There are two steps to OCONUS leave, they are: (1) “enabled”; and (2) “approved.”
(1). “Enabled” travel is the first step and reflects conceptual Command permission to plan
for international leave (level of approval is determined by location and can vary from Company
Officer to Superintendent). This means that, once the DoD requirements are met for the desired
destination, the midshipmen will be permitted to go. Midshipmen should not buy tickets or commit
money to travel until their OCONUS trip is “enabled,” and this should be achieved by a standard
special request chit and may be submitted as early as they would like.
(2). “Approved” indicates completing the USNA OCONUS Leave Travel Checklist
requirements and obtaining the applicable explicit approvals. These can work in parallel with step
one, but travel is not approved until step two is complete. Completion is 100% the responsibility of
the traveling MIDN. If they do not begin the process early enough and do not achieve “approved”
status, they will not be permitted to travel and USNA will not be responsible for their loss of money.
9-2
d. When Flag Officer approval is required, the Battalion Officer shall coordinate with the Deputy
Commandant to arrange for Superintendent approval.
e. Upperclass (non-4/C) midshipmen departing from and returning to the Yard on OCONUS
leave may do so in civilian clothes in accordance with Fleet AT/FP regulations.
3. Residing in Bancroft Hall
a. Midshipmen may occupy their normally assigned room if they desire to remain at the
USNA during a leave period of the Academic Year. Summer room assignments may vary.
b. Midshipmen who remain in their rooms are required to inform their CO/SEL and muster
for taps according to the policies published for that leave period.
4. Special Leave
a. When a difficulty, such as serious illness or death, affects a midshipman's immediate
family, the midshipmen will be entitled to request leave within the normal approval timeframe.
b. Immediate family is defined as a midshipman's father, mother, brother, sister, guardian, or
relative standing in loco parentis. In loco parentis is defined as a person who stood in place of a
parent to the midshipman 24 hours a day for at least five years before the midshipman became 21
years old or entered military service.
c. Special leave may be authorized to attend funerals of relatives or family friends and other
important family events and functions that are not considered emergencies.
d. Only the Battalion Officer, or the OOW if outside working hours, may authorize special
leave. Special leave will normally only authorize a midshipman to miss up to three days of class.
5. Convalescent Leave
a. Midshipmen shall reside in Bancroft Hall during the recovery period from illness or
surgery. If a doctor recommends a midshipman be placed on convalescent leave, then that
midshipman shall seek authorization from the chain of command and not take leave until
authorization is granted. A midshipman’s Battalion Officer retains final authority for
convalescent leave taken inside Bancroft Hall.
b. Convalescent leave may be taken outside of Bancroft Hall only if the midshipman will be
residing under the care of a parent, legal guardian, or sponsor and with the approval of the
Battalion Officer. Convalescent leave outside of Bancroft Hall is the exception, not the norm.
c. If a midshipman cannot get into or out of a standard rack, then that midshipman shall be
allowed to place their rack on the floor, or other accommodations will be made by the
midshipman’s chain of command.
9-3
9.3 HONORS LISTS
1. Honors lists are published at the beginning of each semester. The list effective during the Fall
semester is based on grades earned during Spring semester. Grades in the regular summer
programs are included with the Fall semester grades to determine the list effective during the
Spring semester. Summer work that is reported as incomplete because of hospitalization or other
authorized reasons will not disqualify the midshipman from these lists for which they are
otherwise qualified. Courses taken in the summer academic remedial programs will not be
included in the computation for the Honors Lists.
2. Midshipmen who meet the following criteria will be placed on the Superintendent’s List and
are required to wear a gold star on their uniform.
Minimum Conduct Aptitude PE PFA Other
SQPR Grade Grade Grade Score
Superintendent’s List 3.4 A A B B No D, F or
(Gold Star) I in any
course
Commandant's List 2.9 A B B B
(Silver Star)
Dean’s List 3.4 B B C C No D, F or
(Bronze Star) I in any
course
3. Midshipmen placed on the Superintendent’s, Commandant’s, or Dean’s List must wear the
appropriate insignia (gold, silver, or bronze star) in order to rate the privileges associated (extra
weekends) with each honors list.
NOTE: A midshipman will wear the highest precedence star if on more than one list.
9.4 ROUTINE FOR VOLUNTARY GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAM (VGEP)
MIDSHIPMEN
1. Midshipmen participating in VGEP are enrolled in graduate education programs at local
universities. VGEP is a privilege and is not intended to take priority over military education and
preparation for Naval Service.
2. VGEP Midshipmen will coordinate their schedules with their Company Officer prior to the
beginning of their graduate programs. Schedules will allow VGEP Midshipmen to attend class,
conduct research, use university libraries, write papers, study for exams, and participate in
seminars and other activities related to the successful completion of their master's degree
program.
9-4
3. VGEP Midshipmen may:
a. Be excused from military obligations that conflict with specific VGEP responsibilities.
b. Wear civilian clothes to VGEP classes.
c. Take leave with their civilian university counterparts if it does not conflict with other
midshipman duties.
4. VGEP Midshipmen shall:
a. Muster with the Company if not participating in VGEP activities and at least once per day.
b. Inform the Company CDO if they will be required to miss TAPS.
c. Participate in military responsibilities (drill, parades, stand watch) and intramural sports on
a not-to-interfere basis with their VGEP academic schedule.
d. Participate in PE courses.
e. Contact the accounting branch of the Midshipman Food Services Division (MFSD) to
coordinate reimbursement for missed meals.
9.5 GUESTS IN BANCROFT HALL
1. Guests to King Hall:
a. With the authorization of the CO or SEL, midshipmen may invite relatives and guardians,
Officers and Enlisted members of the armed forces (O-5 and below), faculty members, and other
guests to dine in King Hall.
b. With prior approval from the Commandant of Midshipmen, midshipmen may invite
members of Congress, special or distinguished guests, and Officers of the armed forces (O-6 and
above) to dine in King Hall.
c. Midshipmen hosts will purchase all guest meal tickets in advance from MFSD.
2. Guests to Steerage or Smoke Hall area must be escorted by a midshipman.
3. Instructors in Bancroft Hall after working hours (1730) must be escorted at all times.
4. Midshipmen shall not allow unescorted visitors access to corridors, terraces, or MIDN rooms.
9-5
9.6 SPECIAL EVENTS FOOD SERVICE SUPPORT
1. MFSD will support Company dining ins/outs and picnics, with Company Officer approval, to
the fullest extent that resources allow. Requests must be submitted to MFSD at least two weeks
prior to commencement of the event. Off-Yard events must take place during town liberty.
9.7 COMMISSIONING EXAMINATIONS AND MEDICAL CARE RECEIVED AT
LOCATIONS OTHER THAN THOSE IN BRIGADE MEDICAL
1. Midshipmen shall:
a. Schedule appointments related to commissioning through the BMU pre-commissioning
office at the medical clinic.
b. Notify the pre-commissioning office at least 24 hours in advance if they cannot keep the
appointment.
c. Wear the Uniform of the Day to all non-invasive appointments (counseling, etc.) outside
the USNA complex. For surgeries, radiology studies, physical evaluations and tests, and when
the medical provider specifies, midshipmen may wear Blue and Golds to facilitate those
evaluations.
d. Contact Main Office and their CO/SEL if admitted to a hospital as soon as feasible.
e. Not get corrective eye surgery (aka refractive surgery) after September 10th of 1/C year.
f. Midshipmen may not schedule elective surgery, to include refractive surgery, that is
expected to impede their ability to take examinations during any examination period.
Midshipmen also may not schedule elective surgery during mandatory summer school.
2. When on leave and liberty, midshipmen are entitled to civilian medical and dental care at
government expense. Emergency care does not require prior approval. Urgent and Routine care
does require a referral, which can be obtained via BMU. In all cases, individuals who receive
care outside of Brigade Medical must make an appointment with BMU on the first working day
after return to USNA to document care and coordinate ongoing care. Reimbursement for care of
an elective, non-emergency nature is not authorized. Midshipmen who desire non-emergent
surgery from a non-federal source must meet with the BMO and receive documentation of
counseling about the risks of such surgery prior to scheduling pre-operative appointments or
surgery.
a. Midshipmen who become injured or ill during liberty or leave shall:
(1) Report to the nearest military medical treatment facility if practical or contact the duty
health care provider.
9-6
(2) Notify the duty health care provider, OOW and their CO/SEL.
(3) Direct civilian physicians to send all bills or claims to the Health Benefits Advisor,
NHC Annapolis, 695 Kinkaid Road Annapolis, MD 21402.
b. Upon return to the Naval Academy, midshipmen shall:
(1) Report to BMU for an in-house evaluation.
(2) Bring all documentation of care and any claims to BMU in order to initiate payment
process.
3. Hospitalization:
a. Midshipmen who are admitted to a military hospital shall comply with Midshipmen
Regulations and applicable regulations issued by the hospital Commanding Officer.
b. Immediately after discharge from a hospital, midshipmen shall report to BMU and then to
the CO/SEL. If a military hospital issues discharge orders to a midshipman recommending
convalescent leave, then that midshipman shall immediately contact their CO/SEL or the OOW
to establish whether convalescent leave is authorized.
9.8 USNA-SPONSORED SOCIAL EVENTS
1. As a general rule, any USNA-sponsored social event (e.g., dinner, dance, ball, etc.) is
considered a military function. As such, all midshipmen attending will be in uniform – unless
otherwise specifically promulgated. As a point of clarity, midshipmen are required to be in
uniform at the following events (not an all-inclusive list):
a. Service Assignment/Community Assignment Dinners, Service Birthday Balls, Ring
Dance, and Superintendent Graduation Receptions, and Graduation Ball.
2. A social occasion hosted by an officer, SEL, or other staff member (e.g., dinner, backyard
BBQ, etc.) at the staff member’s house is a personal event. The hosting staff may prescribe the
Uniform of the Day or civilian clothing (if rated), as desired.
9.9 PARENTHOOD, MARRIAGE, AND PREGNANCY
1. Parenthood is defined as having legal, financial or custodial obligations for a child or
children, as determined by court adjudication, self-admission, or other evidence. Any
midshipman who becomes pregnant, causes the pregnancy of another, or has incurred the
obligations of parenthood, must report the condition to their chain of command.
a. Midshipmen who become pregnant and choose not to resign will be allowed to go on a
leave of absence.
9-7
b. Midshipmen who are pregnant or have incurred the obligations of parenthood and who fail
to either resign or request a leave of absence will be separated.
2. Midshipmen may not marry or be married.
3. For detailed instructions and procedures, refer to COMDTMIDNINST 1531.2 (series)
“Procedures and Instructions in cases of Midshipman Pregnancy/Parenthood/ Dependency.”
9.10 CHANGE PROPOSAL PROCESS
1. Change proposals to this instruction shall be submitted using an Action/Decision Memo
located on the Commandant’s webpage under “Documents and Forms.” An example is provided
in Appendix 4.
9-8
APPENDIX A
Class Alpha Room Inspection
Room Number: _________________________________________ Result: Pass / Fail
ICOR: ________________________ Inspector Signature/Date: __________________________
Gross discrepancies. A grade of UNSAT on any of the following items constitutes an overall
UNSAT for the inspection.
  Deck stripped and waxed, no excessive dirt/wax build-up in the corners/around edges.
  Beds made with issued lines, 6” fold, corners tucked at 45 degrees.
  No excessive dirty laundry in locker. No odor emanating.
  No mold in shower and/or on shower curtain.
  Rifle and/or sword clean and secured appropriately.
Routine items. A total of four UNSATs on any of the remaining items listed constitutes an
overall UNSAT for the inspection.
Inspection Ready: Sink and Shower:
  A white glove, black sock, ruler, pen,   Shower walls and floor clean and dry.
and a room inspection chit on the   Shower curtain clean and dry.
desk nearest the door.   Brightwork clean and free of spots.
  All lockers, drawers, and medicine   Medicine cabinet neatly arranged.
cabinets are open. If MIDN not   Washbasin clean and dry.
present, confidential locker stays shut.   Clean towels folded neatly.
  All lights on, trash empty, no gear   Mirrors free of streaks and spots.
adrift.
  Cleaning gear stowed neatly
Lockers:
underneath sink.
  All food stored in air-tight containers.
  No items in shower.
  Closet stowage dark to light, left to
Desks:
right.
  Drawers dusted and the contents
  Shoes clean and stowed white to
stowed neat and orderly.
black, top to bottom.
  Books stored vertically, tall to short,
  Folded clothing neat, aligned to shelf
left to right, aligned with shelf edge.
edge.
  Electrical cords arranged neatly and
  Confidential lockers clean and
safely.
orderly.
  Material on bulletin boards shall be
Windows and Blinds:
appropriate and arranged neatly.
  Windows shut, sills free of dust and
  Chairs clean and dust free.
dirt.
  Computers and monitors clean and
  Window glass clean and spot free on
dusted.
the inside.
  Blinds thoroughly cleaned and dust-
free.
  Blinds at half-mast and open.
APPENDIX B
CLASS BRAVO ROOM INSPECTION
Room Number: _________________________________________ Result: Pass / Fail
ICOR: ________________________ Inspector Signature/Date: __________________________
a. Gross Discrepancies. A grade of UNSAT on any of the following items constitutes an overall
UNSAT for the inspection.
  Deck mopped clean and swept.
  No excessive dirty laundry in locker. No odor emanating.
  No mold in shower and/or shower curtain.
  Door must be open at a 90 degree angle when the room is unoccupied.
b. Routine items. A total of three or more UNSATs on any of the following items
constitutes an overall UNSAT for the inspection:
  All lights and electrical equipment off.
  All surfaces clean and dusted.
  Nothing hung from bulkheads (other than flags), overheads, closets, racks, or doors.
  Racks neatly made with clean linen and a pillow (no blankets on racks).
  No unauthorized furniture or appliances present.
  No gear adrift.
  Confidential lockers will be locked.
  Blinds at half-mast and open.
  Bulletin board and desk material appropriate and neat.
  No rugs in room except shower mat, which must be clean.
  Shower walls, curtain, and deck clean.
  Medicine cabinets clean and neatly arranged.
  Mirrors and bright work clean
  Material deficiencies reported to the Company 1st LT and documented on the room
discrepancy sheet
  All rifles and swords locked.
APPENDIX C
SPECIAL REQUEST FOR BODY ALTERATION (MIDSHIPMAN)
1. I, , Alpha ,
Company have read USNAINST 6240.10F and understand the U.S. Naval Academy
policy regarding body alterations are as follows:
a. Tattoos and Body Art. Four criteria will be used to determine whether tattoos/body
art/brands are permitted for Midshipmen and M/C: content, location, size, and cosmetic. Failure
to comply with established acceptable tattoo criteria as stated, is a violation of midshipmen
regulations and may subject me to disciplinary action to include involuntary separation.
(1) Content. Tattoos located anywhere on the body that are prejudicial to good order,
discipline, morale or are of a nature to bring discredit upon the naval service are prohibited. For
example, tattoos that are obscene, sexually explicit, or advocate discrimination based on sex,
race, religion, ethnicity, or national origin are prohibited. In addition, tattoos that symbolize
affiliation with gangs, supremacist or extremist groups, or advocate illegal drug use are
prohibited. Waivers will not be granted for tattoos with prohibited content.
(2) Location. No tattoos are permitted on the head, face (to include ear), neck, and scalp.
Permissible tattoos on the torso area of the body shall not be visible through white uniform
clothing. Chest tattoos will not be visible when v-neck undergarments are worn underneath any
uniform.
(3) Size. Leg and arm tattoos can be of any size.
(4) Cosmetic Tattoos. Cosmetic tattoos are authorized to correct medical conditions
requiring such treatment. For purposes of this regulation, cosmetic tattooing refers to medical or
surgical procedures conducted by a licensed, qualified medical professional.
b. Mutilation. Intentional mutilation of any part of the body is prohibited. Mutilation is
defined as the intentional, radical alteration of the body, head, face, or skin for the purpose of, or
resulting in, an abnormal appearance. Examples include, but are not limited to:
(1) Split, forked, or pierced tongue;
(2) Pierced nose, lip, eyebrow, or other areas of the face or body;
(3) Foreign objects affixed to or inserted under the skin to create a design or pattern;
(4) Enlarged or stretched holes in ears (other than normal piercing);
(5) Intentional scarring on neck, face, scalp; or
(6) Intentional burns creating a design or pattern.
c. Dental Ornamentation. The use of gold, platinum, or other veneers or caps for purposes of
dental ornamentation is prohibited. For purposes of this regulation, ornamentation is defined as
decorative veneers or caps. Teeth, whether natural, capped, or veneered, will not be ornamented
with designs, jewels, initials, etc.
2. Thoroughly describe any desired alterations below. The written description shall accurately
describe the type, nature, location, and size of the proposed body alteration and translate any
foreign language or symbology contained in the proposed alteration, as applicable.
3. Upon completing the proposed body alteration, I will photograph and document the body
alteration with the Body Alteration Review Board. For the sake of modesty and privacy, only
close-up photographs of alterations normally covered by a regulation swimsuit shall be submitted
for review.
4. By signing below, I voluntarily agree to undergo all body alteration treatment or removal
required by the U.S. Naval Academy Body Alteration Review Board for alterations that do not
comply with U.S. Naval Academy policy at my own expense. I understand that military
treatment facilities may not be able to provide treatment or removal services and I may have to
use a civilian facility at my own expense.
5. I enter into the agreement voluntarily, of my own free will.
6. I understand the policies stated above, and I agree to not receive any body alteration without
prior permission from my chain of command after the signing of this statement. I understand
that deviation from USNAINST 6240.10F may result in conduct action against me or an order
for removal. I further understand that these guidelines are designed to keep me only within U.S.
Navy standards.
7. Furthermore, I understand that the U.S. Marine Corps Tattoo policy as outlined in MCBul
1020 is more restrictive than the USNA policy and any desire to commission into the Marine
Corps requires compliance with MCBul 1020. Failure to comply with U.S. Marine Corps tattoo
policy may result in my inability to commission into the U.S. Marine Corps.
_______________________
Midshipman Signature/Date Approve: Disapprove:
Body Alteration Review Board Recorder
Approve: Disapprove:
SEL Signature/Date
Approve: Disapprove:
Company Officer Signature/Date
Approve: Disapprove:
Battalion Officer Signature/Date
