DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY OFFICE OF THE COMMANDANT OF MIDSHIPMEN UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY 101 BUCHANAN ROAD ANNAPOLIS MARYLAND 21402-5100 COMMANDANT OF MIDSHIPMEN INSTRUCTION 5400.62 From: Commandant of Midshipmen, U.S. Naval Academy Subj: MIDSHIPMEN REGULATIONS MANUAL Ref: (a) OPNAV M~5215.1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.62 MIDREGS OIC 17 Feb 2023 1. Purpose. To update and clarify the Midshipmen Regulations Manual. 2. Cancellation. COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Y 3. Scope and Applicability. This instruction is published for the information and compliance of the Brigade of Midshipmen and all personnel subordinate to the Commandant of Midshipmen. a. Midshipmen Regulations are supplementary to U.S. Navy Regulations, 1990. Members of the Brigade and all personnel subordinate to the Commandant of Midshipmen shall comply with the substance, spirit, and intent of these directives at all times. b. Nothing in these regulations should be construed as taking priority over sound judgment or doing the right thing. Situations may arise where good judgment will be necessary and will, in fact, be the only guiding regulation. Midshipmen are expected to conduct themselves in accordance with Navy core values in these situations. c. These regulations apply at all times. Midshipmen are required to comply with the requirements set forth in this instruction year-round, to include summer training periods and the academic year. Regulations pertaining to midshipmen rooms apply anytime a midshipman occupies a room in Bancroft Hall. d. No later than the midpoint of each semester, the Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen will convene a board to review accumulated proposals and ideas regarding changes to this manual. This board shall consist of the Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen, the senior Battalion Officer, the Brigade Senior Enlisted Leader, the Brigade Commander, the Regimental Commanders, and the Brigade Sergeant Major. One midshipman at large from each Battalion may be selected to attend. Midshipmen on the board may designate replacement representatives. 4. Records Management a. Records created as a result of this instruction, regardless of format or media, must be COMDTMIDNINST 5400.62 17 Feb 2023 maintained and dispositioned for the standard subject identification codes (SSIC) 1000 through 13000 series per the records disposition schedules located on the Department of the Navy/Assistant for Administration (DON/AA), Directives and Records Management Division (DRMD) portal page at https://portal.secnav.navy.mil/orgs/DUSNM/DONAA/DRM/Records­ and-Information,-Management/ Approved%20Record%20Schedules/Forms/ All ltems.aspx. b. For questions concerning the management of records related to this instruction or the records disposition schedules, please contact your local records manager or the DON/ AA DRMD program office. 5. Review and Effective Date. Per OPNAVINST 5215.17A, the Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen will review this instruction annually around the anniversary of its issuance date to ensure applicability, currency, and consistency with Federal, Department of Defense, Secretary of the Navy, and Navy policy and statutory authority using OPNA V 5215/40 Review of Instruction. This instruction will be in effect for 10 years, unless revised or canceled in the interim, and will be reissued by the 10-year anniversary date ifit is still required, unless it meets one of the exceptions in OPNAVINST 5215.17A, paragraph 9. Otherwise, if the instruction is no longer required, it will be processed for cancellation as soon as the need for cancellation is known following the guidance in OPNA V Man~f ;~ 016. J.P. MCDONOUGH III Releasability and distribution: This instruction is cleared for public release and is available electronically via the USNA Commandant Web Page, https://www.usna.edu/Commandant/comdtinst.php 2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 i TABLE OF CONTENTS CHAPTER 1 – ROUTINE EVENTS 1.1 BATTLE RHYTHM 1-1 1.2 MEDICAL CARE 1-3 1.3 INSTRUCTION PERIOD 1-4 1.4 FORMATION , MEAL, AND ROOM INSPECTION 1-4 1.5 ATHLETIC RESERVE PERIOD AND INDIVIDUAL PT 1-4 1.6 MIDSHIPMEN ACTIVITY PERIOD 1-6 1.7 TAPS AND LATE LIGHTS 1-6 1.8 BLUE AND GOLD 1-6 1.9 LIBERTY 1-6 1.10 SPIRIT PASSES AND SLEEP -INS 1-11 CHAPTER 2 – TABLE OF PRIORITIES 2.1 TABLE OF PRIORITIES 2-1 2.2 SPECIAL REQUESTS 2-2 2.3 MOVEMENT ORDERS AND EXCUSALS 2-4 CHAPTER 3 - INTERPERSONAL CONDUCT 3.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 3-1 3.2 HAZING 3-1 3.3 DISCRIMINATION 3-2 3.4 SEXUAL HARASSMENT 3-2 3.5 FRATERNIZATION 3-3 3.6 UPPERCLASS -4/C RELATIONSHIP 3-3 3.7 MIDN -USNA FACULTY/STAFF RELATIONSHIP S 3-4 3.8 MIDSHIPM AN-ENLISTED PERSONNEL RELATIONSHIPS 3-5 3.9 MIDSHIPM AN-OFFICER RELATIONSHIPS 3-6 3.10 MIDSHIPM AN-MIDSHIPM AN RELATIONSHIPS /CONTACT 3-6 CHAPTER 4 - PERSONAL CONDUCT 4.1 PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE 4-1 4.2 PHYSICAL FITNESS 4-3 4.3 SPIRIT -RELATED ACTIVITIES 4-3 4.4 FINANCIAL /EMPLOYMENT ACTIVITIES 4-4 4.5 VEHICLES AND OTHER PERSONAL POSSESSIONS 4-5 4.6 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES 4-7 CHAPTER 5 – SAFETY AND SECURITY 5.1 PHYSICAL SAFETY 5-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 ii 5.2 MILITARY IDENTIFICATION CARDS ( CAC) 5-3 5.3 GOVERNMENT -OWNED PROPERTY 5-4 5.4 COMPUTER USE AND REGULATIONS 5-4 5.5 PERSONAL SECURITY 5-6 CHAPTER 6 – CLASS RATES 6.1 BRIGADE WIDE RATES 6-1 6.2 ADDITIONAL 1/C MIDSHIPMEN RATES 6-1 6.3 4/C MIDSHIPMEN RATES 6-1 CHAPTER 7 – UNIFORMS AND APPEARANCE 7.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 7-1 7.2 AUTHORIZED UNIFORMS 7-3 CHAPTER 8 – BANCROFT HALL CUSTOMS AND MIDSHIPMEN FACILITIES 8.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 8-1 8.2 USE OF MIDSHIPMEN FACILITIES 8-4 8.3 KING HALL 8-5 8.4 MIDSHIPMEN ROOM INSPECTION STANDARDS 8-5 8.5 SHARED COMPANY SPA CES 8-6 8.6 LAUNDRY ROOMS 8-6 8.7 SEVENTH AND EIGHTH WING LOCKERS 8-6 8.8 BICYCLE STORAGE ROOMS 8-6 8.9 STEERAGE 8-7 CHAPTER 9 – ADMINISTRATION 9.1 REQUIRED READING 9-1 9.2 LEAVE PROCEDURES 9-1 9.3 HONORS LISTS 9-3 9.4 ROUTINE FOR VO L. GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAM (VGEP) 9-4 9.5 GUESTS IN BANCROFT HALL 9-5 9.6 SPECIAL EVENT FOOD SERVICE SUPPORT 9-5 9.7 COMMISSIONING EXAMINATIONS AND MEDICAL CARE 9-5 RECEIVED AT LOCATIO NS OTHER THAN THOSE IN BRIGADE MEDICAL 9.8 USNA -SPONSORED SOCIAL EVENTS 9-7 9.9 PARENTHOOD, MARRIAGE AND PREGNANCY 9-7 9.10 CHANGE PROPOSAL PROCESS 9-7 1-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 1: ROUTINE EVENTS 1.1 BATTLE RHYTHM Monday -Friday Schedule 0530 Earliest rising time for plebes (alarms set no earlier than 0530) 0545 -0645 1st Alternate Period for 4/C Professional Quiz (M only) 0630 -0800 Rolling Tray Morning Meal ( W) 0635 -0655 Optional Come -Around Period (M/W/F) (SEE NOTE 1) 0635 -0655 Optional Company Instruction Period (Tu/T h) 0655 Formal Uniform Inspection (Tu) 0700 Morning Quarters Formation 0710-0740 Morning Meal 1130 Early meal for oncoming watch section 1205 Noon Meal Formation (M,Tu,T h,F) 1215-1250 Noon Meal 1250 -1320 Company Instruction/Training Period (M/W) (Except finals) 1250 -1320 Academic Lectures and Meetings (Tu/Th) (Except finals) 1545 -1800 Athletic Reserve Period (varsity , club, intramural, drill) 1730 -1900 Evening Meal – Rolling Tray (M/T/W/TH), King ’s Court (F) 1900 -2000 2nd Alternate Period for 4/C Professional Quiz (F only) 1900 -2000 Midshipmen Activity Period (M/T/ W/TH) 1930 -2000 Instruction Period -Secondary (M/T/W/TH) 2000 -2300 Study Period (See NOTE 1 AND 2) NLT 2245 Blue and Gold ( optional M -Th) (tim e at discretion of Co. Commander) 2300 TAPS for upperclass and lights out for 4/C (M/T/W/TH) 2359 TAPS (F) 2359 Liberty expires for all 1/C and 2/C not on weekend (F only) Saturday Schedule 0630 -0730 Morning Meal 0800 -0930 Training Reserve Period (as directed) 1130 -1300 Noon Meal 1700 -1830 Evening Meal 2359 Liberty expires , TAPS for all midshipmen not o n weekend Sunday Schedule 0700 -0900 Morning Mea l 1100 -1300 Brunch 1600 -1730 Mandatory ProKnow Study Session for UNSAT 4/C (SEE NOTE 1) 1800 End of Liberty Formation 1810 -1900 Evening Meal ( Sit Down or Rolling Tray per Brigade Google Calendar) 1900 -2000 Primary 4/C Professional Quiz Period 1900 -2000 Midshipman Activity Period 2000 -2300 Study Period NLT 2245 Blue and Gold ( See 1.8.1 ) 2300 TAPS, Lights out for 4/C (Chit from sq uad leader to extend) 1-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 NOTE 1: COME AROUND GUIDANCE a. Prior to the Fall 6 -week grade report, 4/C come arounds during study period are prohibited. Regular and supplemental come arounds must be completed prior to 2000. b. Following the Fall 6 -week grade report, all SAT 4/C may schedule one 30 m inutes come around per study period (one per day). Upperclass may not mandate come arounds during study period. c. UNSAT 4/C will be prohibited from conducting come arounds during study period. To ensure UNSAT 4/C still understand proknow, there w ill be a mandatory study session each Sunday from 1600 -1730. d. Academic EI and study sessions will have a higher priority than come arounds for all 4/C. e. SAT/UNSAT status of 4/C will automatically update after each grade entry period. Fal l semester final grades determine eligibility at the start of the Spring semester. NOTE 2: STUDY PERIOD GUIDANCE a. Study period will take place from 2000 -2300 (Su -F) to ensure MIDN have adequate study time to master academic material and complete assignments. b. Two Blue and Golds per week in accordance with Section 1.8 below. c. Other than Blue and Gold, study period shall have no mandatory events for 4/C. d. Midshipmen not on liberty shall be in one of the following locations during study period: (1) Their own room or another midshipman's room to obtain or provide academic assistance; (2) The library or an academic building; (3) On watch; (4) The wardroom (can be class -specific based on company commander policy); (5) Steerage (see Section 8.9 for class privileges at Steerage) ; (6) At a sporting event on the Yard if academically SAT; (7) Conducting personal physical training on the Yard only. e. Midshipmen shall not play loud music or engage in disruptive activity. f. 1/C, 2/C, and 3/C shall not enter a 4/C room unless providing academic assistance. 1-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 1.2 MEDICAL CARE AT THE BRIGADE MEDICAL UNIT (BMU) 1. Midshipmen reporting to BMU shall wear regulation PE gear or better and shall: a. Schedule routine medical and dental appointments at USNA before class, during free periods or after class unless approved by CO /SEL. b. Utilize Brigade Medical and Dental as their primary health care and dental providers for evaluation, treatment, advice, and referral for all routine medical and dental conditions. All Midshipmen who are seen by an outside provider shall sc hedule an appointment with BMU on the next working day to discuss that care and coordinate ongoing care. After hours, the nurse advice line shall be contacted for all non -emergency medical issues. To reach the nurse advice line, dial 410 -293-1758, wait 6 rings, and then you will be automatically transferred. The nurse will forward your call to the duty health provider when warranted. For emergency issues, midshipmen shall immediately contact emerg ency medical services (3 -3333 or 911), and notify the duty health care provider as soon as practicable. c. Cancel medical appointments at least 24 hours in advance if they cannot attend. Midshipmen shall prioritize medical appointments per the table of priorities. 2. Midshipmen must use the Tricare Online Portal or call 410 -293-1758 to make an appoi ntment to be seen at the Brigade Medical Unit for a daily morning appointment. These appointments run from 0630 -1030 with 10 and 20 -minute appointments, and then 20 -minute appointments after 1030. There is no “walk -in sick call” by design, but midshipmen with especially severe symptoms will not be turned away. Midshipmen who arrive at BMU with only mild symptoms may be turned away and told to make an appointment. a. A midshipman must inform their MIDN chain of command (verbally or via email) when they schedule an appointment at BMU that causes them to miss any military obligations, including class. If the appointment schedule or necessary care requires the midshipman to miss class, the midshipman must also inform their CO/SEL and their instructors . The need to miss class after the appointment will be guided by clinical recommendations as outlined on the Midshipman Sick in Quarters (SIQ) chit, which shall be forwarded to the individual’s Company Officer (CO) or Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL) for revi ew/approval. 3. Midshipmen may not enter “Sick in Room” (SIR) into the Academic Accountability System unless they receive a SIQ chit and it is signed by their CO/SEL. As a point of emphasis, chits are not valid until signed by the CO or SEL. Once the c hit is approved, a copy shall be posted on the midshipman’s door (after removing any sensitive medical information). No trainer for a varsity athletic team may issue a medical chit to a midshipman. a. Light Duty: Midshipmen placed on light duty wi ll be provided with a medical excuse authorization form. Midshipmen shall resume regular duties and deliver the original medical excuse authorization form to their CO/SEL. The original chit (or a digital image of the same) must remain in the midshipman’s possession at all times during the period of limited duty. b. Midshipmen unable to attend meals due to illness or injury may have meals from King Hall picked up for them by another midshipman. 1-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 c. A midshipman wishing to pick up food for an SI Q midshipman from the diet kitche n must be able to provide a copy of th e chit, if requested. 4. See Section 9.7 for further details regarding Medical Care from providers other than BMU. 1.3 INSTRUCTION PERIOD 1. Instruction periods shall be used for the training of midshipmen. Multiple training sessions will be offered so that all midshipmen complete prescribed training. 2. The priority of instruction periods depends on the individual administering the training. Midshipmen will consult the table o f priorities to determine legitimate Excusals from training sessions. 3. Come -Around Period and Discretionary Instruction Periods will not be utilized during exam weeks, academic reserve periods, or on review and study days. 4. Company Instruction Peri od following Noon meal (1250 -1320, M/W) is reserved for Company Officer/Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL). If the Company Officer and SEL choose not to utilize the Instruction Period time, other individuals may conduct training. 1.4 FORMATION , MEAL, AND ROOM INSPECTION 1. Midshipmen shall be in an inspection -ready prescribed uniform when attending indoor formation. Covers shall be worn at the discretion of the Company Commander (CC). Midshipmen authorized to wear an alternate uniform for medical purposes m ust carry their CO approved chit on their person at all times. 2. Outdoor formations shall b e conducted in accordance with the Marine Corps Drill and Ceremonies Manual MCO P5060.20 W Ch 1. 3. All classes will attend Morning Quarters Formation and Noon Meal Formation as per the table of priorities outlined in Section 2. 1. 4. Meals and formations will be attended in accordance with the Brigade Google Calendar . 5. Each company shall conduct at least one company -wide Class Bravo room inspection per week at a time specified by the Company Commander. 6. End of liberty (EOL) formation shall be attended in person by all classes in the prescribed uniform . 1.5 ATHLETIC RESERVE PERIOD AND INDIVIDUAL PT 1. Athletic Reserve Period is reserved for drill, club, intramural, and varsity sports practices and competitions. All scheduled intramural events take precedence over individual or company - based workouts. Companies and Battalions may utilize this time for “Brigade PT” if no other organized physical eve nts (drill, intramurals, etc.) are scheduled. 1-5 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 2. During the Athletic Reserve Period, midshipmen may not use any non -physical fitness related facilities on Naval Support Activity Annapolis (NSAA). Such facilities include but are not limited to: Commissary, Navy Exchange (NEX), gas station, barber shop, Navy Federal Credit Union, and any retail food outlets available at the Naval Station (e .g., Subway and Panda Express). 3. Individual midshipmen wishing to conduct workouts off the Yard while not on town liberty, including outside the Athletic Reserve Period unless otherwise specified, will be permitted to do so, provided they: a. Conduct workouts between sunrise and sunset. b. Wear regulation PE gear or designated alternate uniform (Sea Trials, Infantry Skills Team, Combat Fitness, or for ECAs specifically designated by the Commandant’s Operations Officer). All but 4/C Midshipmen may wear Navy/USMC -related technical PT gear off the Yard for endurance sports . 4/C must wear blue rim shirts and keep them tucked in at all times. c. Utilize running routes that ha ve either bike lanes, sidewalks, or running paths. d. Not stop at or enter into any home, business, or other establishment for any purpose other than to use the r estroom facilities. e. Only run, walk, bicycle, or ride in a motorized vehicle to commute between the Yard and other authorized areas. 1/C Midshipmen may drive authorized vehicles (including Personally Owned Vehicles (POV)) to and from NSA Annapoli s and may transport underclassmen. 2/C Midshipmen may also drive their POVs on the Yard to transport underclassmen, but parking is not authorized during athletic reserve period. f. Wear appropriate USNA cold weather gear when harsh weather conditions dictate. g. Conduct workouts at the O -Course or the E -Course in accordance with USNAINST 11100. 7 (series) . This requirement ensures that at least one safety observer is ava ilable to call for assistance and render aid in the event of an injury . 4. Use of Navy Working Uniforms (NWU) as workout attire is subject to the following restrictions: a. On the Yard: Wear NWUs as either a complete uniform (i.e., boots, trousers, brown t - shirt, blouse, and cover) or “modified NWUs” (blouse and cover removed) only during physical training on the Yard. b. Off Yard/NSAA: Wear full NWUs or “modified NWUs,” as desir ed, only for runs transiting to/from the O -Course, E -Course, or Confidence Course (use approved safety route to NSAA in Section 5.1 ). NWUs or “modified NWUs” may be worn on the applicable course. Wearer must be running or jogging while in NWUs off the Ya rd or NSAA (no walking or biking). c. Deviations from this policy for approved team or Company PT associated with a combat - or drill - related event, e.g. ECA, Saturday Morning Training (SMT), Marine Corps Combat 1-6 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 Fitness Test (CFT), etc., must be app roved by the Commandant’s Operation’s Officer or applicable Battalion Officer. 5. Athletic teams are authorized to conduct workouts off the Yard as a team during their team practice times when directed by their Coach. Each member must wear team -approved workout gear. 6. Midshipmen in a duty status (in the daily duty section) may conduct workouts on the Yard only. 1.6 MIDSHIPMAN ACTIVITY PERIOD 1. Midshipman Activity Period shall be reserved for ECAs, club sports meetings, voluntary academic events, and Command religious programs. 2. The Commandant of Midshipmen must approve other events scheduled during this period. 1.7 TAPS AND LATE LIGHTS 1. Each individual midshipman shall sign TAPS before the appointed time. TAPS accountability will be cond ucted at 2300 on Sunday through Thursday and at 2359 on Friday and Saturday by the Company Duty Officer (CDO). Each midshipman must be visually identified by a member of the duty section (i.e. CDO or ACDO). 2. After signing TAPS, m idshipmen shall: a. Be physically present in their rooms for TAPS, asleep or awake. b. Inform their CDO when they depart from and return to company area after TAPS. 3. 4/C Midshipmen may: Have late lights until 2359 or early lights before 2200 if approved by their Squad Leader. 4. It is the responsibility of each individual midshipman to sign taps before the appointed time and to ensure that the CDO has accounted for them. 1.8 SINGING BLUE AND GOLD 1. Blue and Gold shall be held in Company areas on Sundays and may be held one other day of the week. Blue and Gold should be a “positive ” event, but it is also a leadership tool that can be used to address 4/C performance in a professional manner. Moti vational push -ups are authorized (in memory of fallen midshipmen, to Beat Army, etc.), but remedial pushups are not. 2. Blue and Gold may not be longer than 15 minutes, must be NLT 2245 , but may be earlier with permission from the Company Commander . 1.9 LIBERTY 1-7 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 1. The primary responsibility of all midshipmen is to develop the habits and skills necessary to be successful officers, which requires a commitment to excellence in all mission areas, including moral, mental, and physical. Liberty is not a bre ak from that commitment. Responsible behavior on liberty is an element of the USNA mission and will often be an opportunity for midshipmen to further develop their ability to live honorably. 2. Yard Liberty a. Midshipmen have Yar d Liberty anytim e they do not have a specific military obligation per the Daily Battle Rhythm or Brigade Calendar. b. When on Yar d liberty, m idshipmen may conduct individual workouts (a nd depart the Yard per section 1.5), v isit and dine at areas on the Yard , attend Navy sporting events on the Yard , NSAA Complex , and Navy -Marine Corps Memorial Stadium (NMCMS), and p lay golf for leisure (blue over khaki for 4/C). The only authorized “stops” during transit to sporting events at NSAA and NMCMS are the Yard and the actual sporting venue. c. Sponsor’s homes, on or off Yard, are not authorized during Yard Liberty. d. Uniform fo r Yard liberty will be Uniform of the Day (UOD) or authorized Spirit Gear if attending a sporting event on the Yard. 3. Eligibility for Weekday and Overnight Town Liberty a. Eligibility for weekday (bolded font in Table 1 -1 and 1 -2) and overnight town liberty is the same, and it is established at 6 -week, 12 -week, and final grades. Eligibility can be lost at any time, but can only be regained at one of those three tim es. At each marking period, the “weekday/overnight eligible” list shall be posted in company area to enable proper peer accountability. To be eligible for a “weekday/overnight,” a midshipman must: (1) CQPR and SQPR of 2.0 or higher. (2) No academic grades of "F" or more than one "D." (3) Not on Aptitude or Conduct probation or on Restriction. (4) Not in a loss of weekend status as imposed by a Letter of Instruction unless approved by the Issuing Authority or de signee. (5) Passed the most recent semester (official) PFA or subsequent PFA conducted by the Brigade Training Team (BTT). b. Company Officers and Senior Enlisted Leaders may restrict weekday liberty privileges at their discretion ( regardless of a midshipman otherwise meeting eligibility requirements). Battalion Officers may restrict weekend liberty privileges at their discretion. 3. Town Liberty 1-8 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 a. Regulations: (1) Uniform: (a) Midshipmen may not depart on or return from liberty in any uniform other than prescribed liberty attire per COMDTMIDNINST 1020.3 (series). (b) 3/C must depart and return to the Yard in the UOD and must remain in uniform while on liberty between USNA and “near” USNA as contained by the following cities (inclusive): Pasadena, Millersville, Crofton, Davidsonville, and Stevensville. When past these cities AND on overnight liberty, 3/C may wear appropriate civilian attire. (c) 4/C will wear UOD for town liberty at all times. (2) Activity specific attire: For specific physical activities, such as hiking, kayaking, running, and others, 3/C and 4/C may wear appropriate clothing only while participati ng in these activities. For shopping, dining, movies and other activities that do not require physical activity, the UOD requirements above must be followed. Physical activities must not directly “carry over” to non -physical activities and cannot be an e xcuse for not being the prescribed uniform. (3) 3/C and 4/C may attend weekend (Friday -Sunday) worship services in town with an approved chit from their Company Officer. They shall proceed immediately to worship and return immediately after wor ship. b. Schedule: Town liberty will be authorized per Table 1 -1 and 1 -2 once the last military obligation is completed, whichever is later. CIV = civilian attire and UOD = liberty uniform of the day per the current COMDTMIDNINST 1020.3 ( Midshipm en Uniform Regulations). c. In addition to the tables below, 1/ C on the Superintendent’s List, 4 -stripers and up, Company Commanders, and in -season Varsity team captains (per COMDTMIDNNOTE 1710) , if SAT, are granted liberty every weekday , but are r equired to meet all military obligations. Alcohol is only permitted per the liberty tables , but the extra days grant these midshipmen with additional responsibility more flexibility to meet their leadership needs. 1-9 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1/C 1530 -2300 CIV 1530 -2300 CIV NET 1235 - 2359 CIV 0800 -2359 CIV 0800 - 1800CIV 2/C 1530 -2359 CIV 0800 -2359 CIV 0800 -1800 CIV 3/C 1200 -2359 UOD 0800 -1800 UOD 4/C 1200 -2359 UOD Table 1 -1: Town Liberty Fall Semester “Bold” times require “SAT” per paragraph 3 above Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun 1/C 1530 -2300 CIV 1530 -2300 CIV 1530 -2300 CIV NET 1235 - 2359 CIV 0800 -2359 CIV 0800 -1800 CIV 2/C 1530 -2000 UOD 1530 -2000 UOD 1530 -2359 CIV 0800 -2359 CIV 0800 -1800 CIV 3/C 1800 -2359 * UOD 1200 -2359 UOD 0800 -1800 UOD 4/C 1200 -2359 UOD 0800 -1800 UOD Table 1 -2: Town Liberty Spring Semester “Bold” times require “SAT” per paragraph 3 above *After Spring Break 4. Overnight Liberty a. Overnight liberty (sometimes called “a weekend”) simply combines the daily (Fri -Sun) town liberty listed in Table 1 -1 or Table 1 -2 with overnight liberty (with the exception that a 4/C weekend in the Fall includes Sunday until 1800). Base “weekends” are allotted per semester per Table 1 -3 and do not carry over from semester to semester. 1/C: 12 2/C: 8 3/C: 5 4/C: 1 Table 1 -3: “Base” weekend allotment by class b. Midshipmen shall request overnight (“weekend”) liberty by signing the “weekend list. ” Company Commanders shall approve the weekend list, but shall be audited weekly by the Company Officer or SEL. Midshipmen will not depart on weekend liberty prior to Company Commander approval. 1-10 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 c. All midshipmen must gain approval through a special request chit and Operational Risk Management ( ORM) from the Company Officer if leaving a 150 -mile radius. d. A maximum of two additional weekends will be awarded to midshipmen who are members of the Color Company, on the Superintendent's list, on the Commandant's list, or achieve a perfect PFA. e. One additional weekend per semester may be awarded to all eligible members, including 4/C, of a Company's “Color Squad" as well as the respective Platoon Commander and Platoon Sergeant. The Company Officer will select the Color Squa d based on moral, mental, and physical performance at the end of each academic semester. The competition must be metrics - based (e.g., QPR average, # of UNSATS, PFA Score, PFA UNSATS, Conduct/Honor offenses, etc.). The weekend shall be redeemed during the following academic semester. f. Midshipmen shall return to a duty status for military obligations falling between authorized commencement and expiration of weekend liberty, including home football games (from designated end of liberty until the singing of “Navy Blue and Gold ”). g. Additional weekends may be awarded by the Commandant. If the weekend is also deemed “bankable,” that means it can be used later in the same academic year (either semester). Bankable weekends do not carry over through the summer. A “Commandant’s week end” requires standard weekend eligibility. 6. Holidays a. Both weekday and weekend liberty is extended when Friday or Monday is a holiday. When Friday is a holiday, Thursday will follow the normal Friday routine and Friday will follow the normal Saturday routine. When Monday is a holiday, all midshipmen are authorized town liberty on Sunday from 0800 - 2359, and Monday will follow the normal Sunday routine. b. End of Leave formation will be at 2000 in Service Dress Blues for the return fro m Thanksgiving, Winter Break, and Spring Break. All other End of Leave formations will be designated by the Commandant's Operations Officer. 7. Authority to Grant Additional Liberty: a. Company Officers and SELs are authorized to grant extensions of normal liberty up to twelve hours (unless such extension would result in missing an academic class). This extension is not intended for use as a reward, but rather to provide flexibi lity to apply sound ORM practices and to allow reasonable flexibility for special or unforeseen situations. When the CO or SEL cannot be reached in a relevant time period, midshipmen should contact the Officer of the Watch (OOW) for approval. b. On Sundays, when there is no sit -down meal planned for the Brigade, Battalion Officers may grant extended liberty to 2000 at their discretion. c. “Class up ” liberty and “class up weekend” liberty is defined as granting liberty of the next higher class in accordance with Table 1 -1 and 1 -2. For exceptional circumstances on a case by 1-11 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 case basis by special request chit, Company Officers may grant two “class ups” per semester per midshipmen . Battalio n Officers may grant an additional two “class ups” and one “class up weekend” per semester per MIDN. “Class up” does not apply to liberty attire (uniform vs. civilian clothes). 1.10 SPIRIT PASSES AND SLEEP -INS 1. Spirit passes are to reward midshipmen for demonstrating esprit de corps in support of the Brigade and their fellow midshipmen. 2. All midshipmen are eligible to use spirit passes except those on restriction or under a Letter of Instruction that specifies a loss of liberty. There are otherwi se no specific academic, physical or aptitude requirements for eligibility. 3. Spirit passes are granted to the Brigade by the Commandant of Midshipmen and also individually earned by attending designated events approved by the Commandant. https://intranet.usna.edu/Commandant/_files/documents/Docs/SPIRIT_PASS_EVENTS.pdf 4. For designated Spirit Pass sporting events, if the “team” wins the eve nt, the team shall be granted a Spirit Pass. “Individual” wins do not qualify for Spirit Passes. 5. A midshipmen may individually earn and use up to five spirit passes per semester (in addition to any granted by the Commandant). Spirit passes carry o ver from Fall to Spring, but do not carry over through the Summer. Spirit passes are not transferable from one midshipman to another. 6. Accountability for musters at events is managed at the Company level. For longer sporting events (over 2 hours), re asonable breaks for food are authorized, but attendance from the start through Blue and Gold is required for Spirit Pass credit. 7. Spirit Pass privileges are defined as: 1/C Fall and Spring: a “buddy pass” to bring one other 1/C (in civilian attire) or 2/C or 3/C (in uniform) on weekday liberty per weekday liberty hours. Multiple spirit passes may be used together to “buddy pass” a group of people together. 2/C Fall: One day of Tu/Th liberty, in UOD, from 1530 -2000 Spring: One day of Wed liberty, in UOD, from 1530 -2300 3/C Fall: One day of Friday liberty from LMO/NET 1530 -2359 Spring: One day of Tu/Th liberty, in UOD, from 1530 -2000 4/C Fall: One day of Sunday liberty from 0800 -1800 Spring: One day of Friday liberty from 1800 -2000 8. Sleep -Ins: Sleep -ins allow unit commanders to positively reward midshipmen for appropriate actions and performance in mission areas. 1-12 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 a. There are “Warrior Wednesday” (WW) and “daily” sleep -ins. WWs can only be used on Wednesday during rolling t ray breakfast. Daily can be used any day of the week. b. All sleep -ins shall be “bankable,” but they each require approval to “award” and to “redeem” as a two -step process. Awarding requires midshipman initiative and active duty staff approval per the table below. Redeeming only requires midshipman approval at the same unit commander level that awarded the sleep in. Awarding Authority Matrix Type of Sleep in To award for this unit Awarding Unit Commander Approval Needed from Daily Individuals within each unit SL, PC, CC Company Officer WW Squad PC CC WW Platoon CC Company Officer WW Company Battalion Commander Battalion Officer WW Battalion, Brigade Brigade Commander DepDant c. Redemption: Authorization must be requested to redeem an awarded sleep -in. (1) WW sleep -ins must be redeemed for the entire awarded unit on the same day. (2) Squad leaders will authorize the redemption of Daily sleep -ins for no more than one member of their squad per day (including Wednesdays). Tables in King Hall need to remain “full.” (3) WW sleep -ins are authorized by the awarding co mmander, and may only be approved for one unit per Wednesday, e.g., CCs can authorize only 1 platoon sleep in per Wednesday, Battalion Commanders can authorize only 1 company sleep in per Wednesday. 2-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 2: TABLE OF PRIORITIES 2.1 TABLE OF PRIORITIES 1. Midshipmen shall consult with a cognizant superior in the chain of command for guidance in resolving conflicts and inform all necessary parties in advance if an obligation is overruled by a higher priority. 1. Orders to report to the Superintendent, Commandant, Deputy Commandants, Provost, or OOW, in that order. This includes appearing before Academic Boards, Academic Advisory Boards, Commandant Honor Hearings, Brigade Honor , Aptitude , and Conduct Hearings. 2. Orders to report to th e Battalion Officer, C O, SEL , in that order. This includes Battalion - Level Conduct and Honor adjudications , Striper Boards, and Aptitude Boards. 3. Watch. The only watchstanders permitted to miss class are standing MOOW, AMOOWs and Duty Drivers. All m idshipmen shall make every effort to attend class. Watchbills must not require a midshipman to miss a scheduled exam. CMOD is a valid excusal for up to 3 tardies per semester. 4. Authorized scheduled medical and dental appointments outside USNA, or app ointments at USNA with outside specialists, and scheduled pre -commissioning/commissioning physicals. Exams during Academic Reserve and final exams shall not be missed for any elective, routine, or otherwise non -emergent procedures. 5. Scheduled class att endance, scheduled labs, scheduled physical education tests, and the PFA. 6. Scheduled appointments at BMU (non -emergency medical treatment) 7. Mandatory formations and meals, career information briefs, Forrestal Lectures, and Sexual Harassment and Ass ault Prevention Education (SHAPE) trainings. 8. Scheduled team practices and meetings per COMDTMIDNNOTE 1710. This includes only organized, scheduled, coach -run team workouts (not individual workouts or captain’s practices). 9. Drill, parades, march -ons, Company Officer Training and other mandatory events noted in the POD, to include weekly 4/C Professional Knowledge Quizzes. 10. Remedial PE sessions. 11. Scheduled meetings with an academic advisor or scheduled EI with instructors. 12. Tours and restriction musters. Events shall be scheduled around tours and restriction musters. If a tour or muster is to be missed for something not already listed in the table of priorities, the MIDN shall obtain concurrence from their CO/SEL and the n obtain permission from the Staff Duty Officer or the OOW. CMOD should not excuse tours. 13. Intramurals. 14. Scheduled BSA practices and meetings per COMDTMIDNNOTE 1710. This includes only organized, scheduled, staff -run practices, and not individu al or captain's practices. 15. Varsity, Club "A" and junior varsity activities other than scheduled practice or competitions. 16. BSA activities other than scheduled practice or competitions. 17. Club "B" and intramural activities other than schedule d practice or competitions. 18. Extracurricular activities. 19. Liberty. Table 2 -1 2-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 2.2 SPECIAL REQUESTS 1. The right of any midshipman to make a special request of their organizational superiors may not be denied or restricted. If a midshipman believes special circumstances warrant an exception to any regulation or directive, they may submit a special request to the appropriate approval authority to obtain permission. a. Requests will be forwarded promptly through the chain of command to the appropriate level for decision. As appropriate, the reason should be stated when a request is not recommended or approved. b. No person will, through intent or neglect, fail to act on or forward promptly any request or appeal which it is their duty to act on or forward. c. Requests for exchange of duty will be made only between midshipmen fully qualified to stand each other’s watches and done so with the written acknowledgement of the Company Adjutant or CDO. Exchanges of duty will be ma de for at least one full day. d. A special request chit must be submitted to the approval a uthority at least three working days prior to the start of the request. If the request requires Battalion Officer approval, it should be submitted at least f ive (5) working days in advance. If the request requires Commandant of Midshipmen or Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen approval, the request should be submitted at least seven (7) working days in advance. e. Midshipmen shall not act on a special requ est until they have approval as required below. 2. Approval Authority: a. Commandant of Midshipmen: (1) Use of alcohol at any Naval Academy sponsored event except where delegated to the Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen or Battalion Officer by the Commandant of Midshipmen. Requestors must complete the Alcohol and Drug Education Officer's (ADEO) special request chit before submitting requests to be included with the request package. (2) Any outside employment . See Section 4.4 for applicable rules. b. Deputy Commandant of Midshipmen: Change of Company for a midshipman. Company changes shall be in effect through graduation, to include the graduation processions. c. Battalion Officer: (1) Special leave requests after consultat ion with the Associate Provost for Academic Affairs. (2) Special liberty requests up to 72 hours. 2-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 (3) Regular OCONUS leave requests. (4) Convalescent leave outside Bancroft Hall. (5) Excusals from any mandatory Brigade or Battalion level event, to include but not limited to football games, Distinguished Artist Series, Forrestal Lectures, and Battalion Spirit Nights. (6) Participation in inherently hazardous act ivities (refer to Section 5.1, paragraph 2.g.). (7) Replacement of a lost/stolen ID card (second occurrence). (8) Alcohol chits for Battalion and Company level events off -Yard such as football tailgates, dining in/outs or company picn ics. (9) Conduct of any “Spirit Missions” off the Yard. d. Commandant Operations Officer: (1) ORM Memorandums from High Risk ECAs identified by the Commandant of Midshipmen. (2) Special Request Chits from High Risk ECAs. e. OOW : (1) Special leave request chits during non -working hours ( when Company Officer and SEL are not present) . (2) Cutting locks in seventh and eighth wing locker space s at the request of midshipmen occupying a locker or after consultation with the Commandant of Midshipmen’s Legal Advisor. f. Company Officer and SEL: (1) Missing class for rare and exceptional circumstances outside Table 2 -1 situations . (2) Endorsement to Academic Dean to miss a regularly scheduled examination during end of semester or academic reserve periods. (3) Missing TAPS and liberty extensions up to 12 hours for unforeseen circumstances that require a midshipm an to return late. This approval authority is meant to put midshipmen in an “authorized absence” status instead of being UA while they safely return to USNA . (4) Special town liberty, including liberty for 3/C and 4/C to attend religious services . 2-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 (5) Excusal from military evolutions, including swimming and PE remedials, parades, intramurals, and formations. (6) Assess weekend e ligibility requirements. (7) Guests of individual midshipmen to dine in King Hall (O -5 and below). (8) Authorization to reside in Bancroft Hall during leave periods. (9) Regular CONUS leave requests. (10) Replace ment of a lost/stolen ID card (first occurrence). (11) Conduct of “Spirit Missions ” on the Yard, outside Bancroft Hall. (12) Grant one weekend per semester to eligible members of a Color Squad, including the respective Platoon Command er and Platoon Sergeant. g. Company Commander: (1) Workout times earlier than 0545 for Company personnel on an individual basis (not including 4/C). (2) Sign -in formations for “special circumstance” (holiday, special event) weekday breakfast or noon meal formations if meals are rolling tray. (3) Reservation of the company wardroom for events or meetings. (4) May authorize platoon/company outings during authorized liberty (this may be delegated to the Pla toon Commander for Squad -level events). (5) May authorize 3/C or 4/C Midshipmen to wear blue over khaki to outings during authorized liberty not on the Yard or PT gear for physical events such as paintball where the blue over khaki uniform would otherwise be damaged (this may be delegated to the Platoon Commander for Squad -level events). (6) Timing of Blue and Gold for 4/C. (7) Conduct of “Spirit Missions” inside Bancroft Hall. h. Squad Leader: Carry -on for Squad at meals, consistent with Brigade training. 2.3 MOVEMENT ORDERS AND EXCUSALS 1. An Excusal must be submitted to allow midshipmen to miss normally scheduled events in order to attend other events happening on the Yard. 2-5 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 2. For accountability purposes, a Movement Order must be submitted in Midshipman Information Database System ( MIDS ) to allow midshipmen to miss normally scheduled events in order to attend other events away from USNA, even during normal liberty time. a. Movement Orders consider the “Naval Academy” to be the USNA Yard, the Naval Support Activity Annapolis (NSAA) , and Navy -Marine Corps Memorial Stadium. b. Movement orders and excusals may be created by anyone on the Yard but must be requeste d in accordance with the timeline outlined in COMDTMIDNINST 4653.1 (series). 3. Midshipmen shall not depart on Movement Order or participate in an Excusal prior to obtaining approval from the appropriate approval authorities. 4. If an Excusal or Movement Order has a priority level of “standard” or “medium,” then a request to miss class chit must be signed by all relevant instructors and submitted to the Company Officer. 3-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 3: INTERPERSONAL CONDUCT 3.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 1. The Navy has historically relied upon custom and tradition to define the bounds of acceptable personal relationships among its members and with those outside of the military. Midshipmen will conduct themselves with the utmost professionalism in all interp ersonal interactions in all settings and at all times. Midshipmen will treat each and every person with dignity and respect. 2. When in doubt, a midshipman should consult their chain of command, a chaplain, or a trusted mentor for further guidance on ac ceptable interpersonal interactions. 3.2 HAZING 1. Hazing is a form of harassment that includes conduct through which Service Members or DoD employees, without a proper military or other governmental purpose but with a nexus to military Service, physically or psychologically injure or create a risk of physical or psychological injury to Service Members for the purpose of: initiation into, admission into, affiliation with, change in status or position within or continued membership in any military or DoD civilian organization. Hazing can be conducted through the use of electronic devices or communications and by other means including social media, as well as in person. Soliciting or coercing another to perpetrate any such activity is also considered hazing. Hazing need not involve physical contact among or between military members; it can be verbal or psychological in nature. Actual or im plied consent to acts of hazing does not eliminate the culpability of the perpetrator. Hazing, in any form, is prohibited and will not be tol erated. 2. Regulations regarding hazing: a. No midshipman may engage in hazing or consent to acts of hazi ng being committed upon them. A n upperclass asking a Midshipmen 4/C if a certain hazing activity is “ok,” and that 4/C saying “ok” does not mean the act is permitted. Hazing is hazing based on activity, not based on consent. b. No midshipman, regardless of billet or rank, may condone or ignore hazing if they know or reasonably should have known that hazing may or did occur. Every midshipman has the responsibility to inform appropriate authorities (CO , SEL, or CMEO) of any hazing incidents or potential hazing incidents. c. Reprisal actions against any victim or witness of hazing incidents are strictly prohibited. d. Physical abuse or harassment will not be tolerated in any form. Physical contact is allowed with the 4/C only as necessary for specifi cally approved training purposes, and with prior con sent from the individual being touched . No amount of physical force is condoned. e. Midshipmen in authority positions over other midshipmen will follow on ly practices that would be reasonably and lawfully acceptable for use in the Fleet. All practices should be readily 3-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 defendable with appropriate rationale to the parents of subordinates or other interested constituencies. 3.3 DISCRIMINATION 1. Prohibite d discrimination is discrimination, including disparate treatment, of an individual or group on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy), gender identity or sexual orientation that is not otherwise authorized by law or regulation and detracts from military readiness. 2. Regulations regarding discrimination: a. Midshipmen will neither individually nor collectively discriminate against another individual or group. b. Midshipmen will not take reprisal action against a person who provides information on an incident of alleged unlawful discrimination. Reprisals are prohibited regardless of who originates the reprisal action. c. Midshipmen will not knowing ly make a false accusation of unlawful discrimination. d. Midshipmen will not condone or ignore discrimination and are encouraged to report any suspected discrimination to their CO, SEL, or CMEO. 3.4 SEXUAL HARASSMENT 1. Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination that involves unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, visual, or physical conduct of a sexual nature when: a. Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of a person’s job, pay, or career. For midshipmen, this could mean a term or condition of privileges, selection for billets or training opportunities, or for s ervice assignment preference. b. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment. At USNA, the working environment refers to every location on and off the Yard, 24 hours a day. 2. Sexual harassment includes, but is not limited to, unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, passive or indirect actions that create a hostile work environment such as sexually explicit posters, pictures, or screensavers, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. 3. Regulations regarding sexual harassment: a. Midshipmen will not commit sexual harassment as defined above. 3-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 b. Midshipmen will not take reprisal action against a person who provides information on an incident of alleged sexual harassment. c. Midshipmen will not knowingly make a false accusation of sexual harassment. d. Midshipmen will not condone or ignore sexual harassment and are encouraged to report any suspected sexual harassment to their CO, SEL, or CMEO. 3.5 FRATERNIZATION 1. Fraternization is a gender neutral concept used to identify personal relations hips that do not respect the bounds of acceptable senior -subordinate relationships. Although it is most commonly applied to officer - enlisted relationships, fraternization also includes improper relationships and social interactions between officer member s as well as between enlisted members, regardless of the service affiliation of the other officer or enlisted member, including members of foreign military services. 2. Circumstances prejudicial to good order and discipline are those that call into quest ion a senior’s objectivity, result in actual or apparent preferential treatment, undermine the authority of a senior, or compromise the chain of command. 3. Midshipmen on summer training will adhere to the specific fraternization policies of their assigned units in addition to all USNA policies. 4. Collective terms associated with fraternization apply equally to personnel of foreign military services. 3.6 UPPERCLASS - 4/C RELATIONSHIP 1. Due to the unique training environment of the USNA and th e essential leadership role Upperclass Midshipmen hold in educating and training 4/C Midshipmen , Upperclass have a senior -subordinate relationship with 4/C Midshipmen which must be respected and protected. 2. These regulations apply to all Upperclass -to-4/C Midshipmen. If there is clear and convincing evidence of a pre -USNA relationship (where members of a pre -existing relationship enter USNA in different years), the relationship will be permitted, but the current midshipman must inform their chain of co mmand prior to entry of the other member. The second incoming midshipman will be placed in, and maintained in, the opposite regiment. The relationship in Bancroft Hall must remain professional at all times and should not be readily apparent to other memb ers of the training environment. 3. Upperclass Midshipmen, in cluding international exchange midshipmen, shall maintain a proper professional relationship with 4/C at all times. 4. Upperclass Midshipmen shall not: 3-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 a. Attempt to personally degrade or humiliate 4/C Midshipmen. b. Date, have sexual relations, or otherwise fraternize with 4/C Midshipmen (unless they are in an approved pre -USNA relationship per section 3.6.2 above). c. Request or direct 4/C Midshipmen to perform personal services, to include purchasing supplies for Upperclass. d. Impose any informal or unauthorized punishment. e. Touch 4/C Midshipmen for any purpose other than correcting or adjusting a uniform, drill or rifle position, or as necessary for other legitimate training or safety purposes. To t he maximum extent possible and prior to contact, the individual bein g touched should be informed of the purpose and nature of the contact. f. Borrow anything from a 4/C Midshipman , including uniform items. g. Conduct activities with a 4/C before 0630 unless specifically approved for training. 053 5 or 0540 workouts must be approved as part of the training plan. h. Direct a 4/C to write letters or send emails or messages as a prank. i. Enter a 4/C room during study period other than to provide academic assistance. j. Invite a 4/C to enter a n Upperclass room. k. Use any real -time electronic communication with a 4/C unless for professional purposes, e.g. Brigade recall. This includes, but is not limited to, instant messaging, chat rooms, social networking sites, texting, or any compara ble mode of communication. However, messages between siblings or other close blood relatives (e.g., first cousins) regarding family matters shall be considered a professional purpose when an in -person meeting is impractical. 3.7 MIDSHIPMAN - USNA FACULTY/STAFF PERSONNEL RELATIONSHIPS 1. Unduly familiar personal relationships between midshipmen and active duty or civilian faculty or staff members that do not respect differences in grade, rank, position of authority, or the staff/student relationsh ip, or are prejudicial to good order and discipline, are prohibited. This prohibition includes interactions with enlisted personnel during training and leave periods away from the USNA. 2. Midshipmen dealings with DoD police and Navy Security personnel shall be limited to: a. Promptly reporting any unlawful acts and acts that pose a physical danger to others. Acts of midshipmen that are prejudicial to the maintenance of good order and discipline should be reported to the OOW . 3-5 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 b. Reporting the presence of any unidentified person found in Bancroft Hall in areas under the responsibility of a CMOD. c. Responding to questions or commands of USNA security personnel when those personnel are in the performance of their assigned duties. d. Obeying lawful orders given by security personnel. 3. Midshipmen shall not employ the personal services of building attendants. 3.8 MIDSHIPMAN - ENLISTED PERSONNEL RELATIONSHIPS 1. Personal relationships between midshipmen and enlisted member s that are unduly familiar because they do not respect differences in grade, rank, or position of authority, or because they are prejudicial to good order and discipline, are prohibited. a. However, clear and convincing evidence of a pre -existing relationship prior to a change in status of one of the members (e.g., E -4 subsequently becomes a midshipman) will make the ongoing relationship permissible despite the status change, so long as the members disclose the relationship to USNA prior to the change in status. b. The member who becomes a midshipman is required to disclose the relationship on I -Day. The relationship must be specifically noted and approved by the Commandant of Midshipmen and the relationship must be disclosed in Section F of the Marriage, Dependent, and Relationship Declaration form prior to taking the Oath of Office on I -Day. Failure to knowingly disclose any pre-existing relationship after signing this docum ent may result in conduct action. c. Midshipmen already at USNA and who are in a pre -existing (pre -USNA) relationship, will, under this policy, be able to maintain said relationship. They must disclose their relationship to their chain of command as soon as reasonably practicable. Per OPNAVINST 5370.2 (series) , midshipmen who commission into the Navy will be able to maintain their relationship through commissioning. d. Midshipmen who commission to the Marine Corps do not have a path to main tain enlisted relationships. The Marine Corps only allows officer -enlisted relationships if marriage occurred prior to commissioning (while both members were still enlisted), and as midshipmen are not allowed to be married prior to commissioning, no offic er-enlisted relationship would be permitted. As such, midshipmen are not permitted to sustain relationships with enlisted Marines. 2. Midshipmen shall: a. Obey lawful orders given by enlisted personnel acting as instructors. b. Maintain a proper professional relationship with enlisted members at all times, regardless of duty station. 3-6 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 3. Other than relationships that began before arrival at USNA or before the Naval Academy Preparatory School and properly disclosed midshipmen shall not date, have sexual relations, or otherwise fraternize with enlisted personnel. 4. Midshipmen are expected to observe appropriate military courtesies with close blood relatives (e.g., sibling, parent, grandparent, first cousin, aunt, or unc le) and continue to act in a manner that respects differences in grade, rank, or position of authority while interacting or socializing with close blood relatives. 5. Midshipmen may have enlisted members act as their sponsors via the Sponsor Program. 3.9 MIDSHIPMAN - OFFICER RELATIONSHIPS 1. Personal relationships between midshipmen and officers that are unduly familiar because they do not respect differences in grade, rank, or position of authority or because they are prejudicial to good order and discipline, are prohibited. 2. Midshipmen shall not date, have sexual relations, or otherwise fraternize with commissioned officers, with the following exception: 1/C and 2/C Midshipmen may maintain pre -existing close personal relationships with newly c ommissioned officers provided the relationship was initially established when both parties were midshipmen. 3.10 MIDSHIPMAN - MIDSHIPMAN RELATIONSHIPS AND CONTACT 1. Unduly familiar personal relationships between midshipmen in the same Company are prohi bited when prejudicial to good order and discipline . 2. Any midshipman who desires to sustain a romantic relationship beyond a “trial period” with another midshipman in the same Company shall request a transfer to another Company. For this purpose, the trial period will allow two “dates.” A request to transfer must be submitted before a third “date” or before sexual relations. 3. Displays of affection are prohibited while in uniform, regardless of location, and at all times in Bancroft Hall. Displays of affection are defined as physical acts which could reasonably be interpreted by an observer as evidence that those participating are involved in a romantic relationship. Displays of affection that midshipmen shall not do include, but are not limited t o, hand holding, touching, massaging/back rubs, sitting on a lap, touching, and kissing. Displays of affection are gender neutral and considered equally inappropriate regardless of gender. 4. Sexual misconduct is defined as sexual acts at USNA or other areas or locations under military control, e.g., bases, ships or aircraft, as well as sexual acts committed under circumstances that are service discrediting or prejudicial to good order and discipline. A sexual act is any act done either with an intent t o arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person or which reasonably tends to give the appearance of an act with an intent to arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person . Examples include, but are not limited to, fondling, displays of affection o n a rack, lying in a rack together, sexually motivated nudity, indecent exposure, oral 3-7 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 sex, and sexual intercourse. Sexual misconduct is gender neutral and is considered equally inappropriate regardless of gender. 5. Midshipmen shall: a. Report displays of affection or sexual misconduct. b. Keep room doors fully open at 90 degrees with the lights on when: (1) In a room, not your own, with none of the assigned occupants present (e.g., CMOD patrol, leaving a note for a friend, etc .) (2) Only two people are in a room and one of them is not an assigned occupant (3) Any assigned occupant present does not agree to having the door closed. Non-assigned occupants must leave the room at the request of an assigned occ upant. The assigned occupant may make this request for any reason (e.g., assigned member needs to change, take a shower, needs space, etc.). (4) Any upperclass is in any 4/C room . 4-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 4: PERSONAL CONDUCT 4.1 PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE 1. With regard to the wearing of covers, midshipmen shall: a. Remain covered while under arms : wearing a sword, carrying a rifle, or carrying a guidon . During indoor training, when guidons are stored and all midshipmen are seated, midshipmen may uncover. b. Remain covered when outdoors, including while seated, with exception of the singing of Blue and Gold. c. Remain covered while transiting in government vehicles, unless wearing the cover is impractical or hazardous. As a military courtesy, covers should be worn by the driver of a POV when entering a military installation to enable a return salute. d. Remain covered when standing watch, except in Memorial Hall, areas where food is being served, and areas where religious services are being conducted. When in King Hall, watch personnel shall rem ain covered until seated for the meal. e. CCs may specify the requirement to cover or uncover during indoor uniform inspection formations. 2. With regard to offering salutes, midshipmen shall render and return salutes and appropriate greetings as required by proper service etiquette. Exceptions to rendering salutes include: a. At crowded gatherings or in congested areas, only a midshipman addressing or being addressed by an officer shall render salutes. While inside NMCMS during football games, salutes shall not be rendered except to Admirals who are directly speaking with a midshipman. b. Persons at work or otherwise engaged shall salute only when addressed by an officer and then only if circumstances warrant. c. Persons in formation shall salute only on command of the detail leader. d. Persons operating moving motor vehicles should not render or return salutes. Passengers in government vehicles will render and return salutes if covered. 3. With regard to rendering honors and other signs of respect, all midshipmen shall: a. Call “Attention on deck” at first s ight of any Senior Officer (O -5 or above, Navy or Marine Corps) and the OOW anywhere in Bancroft Hall other than administrative spaces. (1) If within sight or hearing of the call to attention, come to attention and carry on only when the order is given. 4-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 (2) If standing watch, following the call to attention, approach the officer, salute, and offer assistance. b. Show deference to officers at all times by recognizing their presence and employing a courteous and respectful bearing and mode of speech toward them. c. Come to attention, unless circumstances make such action impracticable or inappropriate, when : (1) Addressed by a senior officer. (2) An officer or senior enlisted enters their room. (3) An officer joins the mess. (4) An instructor, military or civilian, enters or departs the classroom (unless directed otherwise by the instructor) . d. Walk on the left of officers whom they are accompanying. 4. While at official Naval Academy functions or lectures, midshipmen will: a. Sit in seats reserved for their particular Company or billet. b. Conduct themselves in an appropriate manner and not create disturbances. c. Ask only questions appropriate to the rank of the speaker and the size of the audience. 5. While walking in uniform, midshipmen will not smoke, vape, chew tobacco , eat, drink, place hands in pockets, or publicly display affection. Professional escorting with a hand on an elbow (date, family member, etc.) is allowed. 6. Midshipmen shall follow this guidance on cell phone usage and storage: a. Midshipmen an d Staff should never have a cell phone "protrude" out of any pocket, front or back. As a test of protrusion, if the color of the cell phone can be determined while in the pocket, it is protruding. b. While not in a military formation, midshipmen m ay carry cell phones in their left hand or store in a bag/backpack. When saluting, the phone may be placed by the side of their left leg, as per Navy regulations. c. When in formation (noon meal formation and football marchover), phones shall not b e visible in front or back pockets. In these situations, midshipmen may not bring their cell phone or may store their phone in their cover or in a sock under a pant leg. 4-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 d. Phones shall never be carried during uniform inspections or formal parades. e. “Texting while walking” is NOT permitted in military uniform, indoors or outdoors. “Talking while walking” IS permitted, but phones shall be carried in left hands and lowered to the left side while rendering salutes and greetings. f. Onl y use phones in King Hall for short -term “business ” (checking a calendar, etc.). Phones shall not be used for social media while in King Hall. 7. Midshipmen shall not walk on grass in ceremonial areas. 8. With regard to football games, midshipmen shal l: a. Attend all home football games and the Army -Navy football game. b. Watch the game only from the designated Brigade seating areas and remain standing from March -On through Blue and Gold, with the exception of halftime when they may be seated. Only 1/C Midshipmen who have purchased tickets to home games for their guests and themselves will be allowed to sit with their guests. Company Officers may approve requests from 2/C, 3/C, and 4/C Midshipmen to sit with guests. c. Not bring visitors into the designat ed seating area. 4.2 PHYSICAL FITNESS 1. Midshipmen shall participate in at least one varsity, club, or intramural sport during each academic semester. 2. Midshipmen must pass each semester’s (official) PFA and PE course. All personnel who fail the Fall or Spring PFA or any swim course must participate in Physical Education Department’s Remedial Programs in accordance with COMDTMIDNINST 6110.3 (series). Midshipmen with PFA or PE deficiencies who fail to attend remedials wi ll be reported as Unauthorized Absence (UA). 3. Midshipmen shall not become members, either regular or associate, or accept office in any intercollegiate athletic association, unless recommended by the Director of Athletics and the Commandant of Midshi pmen and approved by the Superintendent. 4.3 SPIRIT -RELATED ACTIVITIES 1. Spirit -related activities, including cheers, sheet posters, decorations, or skits, will remain within the bounds of good sportsmanship, good taste, and common decency. Spirit should focus on our team’s efforts and not tearing down the opposition, and should not be destructive in any way. “Chirping” or trolling opponent social media accounts with the intent to heckle is strictly prohibited. 4-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 2. Midshipmen will obtain CO/SEL approval before conducting any spirit -related activity or “Spirit Mission.” 3. Midshipmen shall not: a. Deface, destroy, or move any property, including missiles, aircraft, cannons, torpedoes, sailing vessels, monuments, memorials, items of historical significance, and other decorative art or objects, unless sanctioned by the Commandant of Midshipme n. b. Move, lift, or rearrange tables, chairs, or other equipment in King Hall, Dahlgren Hall, academic buildings, or associated spaces. c. Block egress from occupied spaces. d. Conduct spirit -related activities or “Spirit Missions” in underground facilities, spaces, or tunnels beneath the Yard. 4. With regard to videos posted on the internet: a. Midshipmen may create videos for morale and expression purposes. Howev er, those videos must be reviewed through the process outlined below before being posted to any online website, e.g. YouTube, Instagram, etc. b. Videos intended for online publication must be in good taste and avoid offensive or inappropriate behavior that could bring discredit to the Navy or the USNA. When videos are posted, a disclaimer shall be included, announcing that the video is th e personal work of a particular person/group or persons, and not a USNA or Navy/Marine Corps sponsored video. The video shall not include any defamatory, libelous, obscene, abusive, threatening, racially or ethnically discriminatory, or otherwise offensiv e or illegal information or material. No inappropriate wear of uniforms may be used in the videos. c. Videos intended for online publication shall be reviewed by the Company Commander and Company Officer. ECAs, clubs, and sports shall have their Officer Representative review prior to posting. When specific questions arise, the MIDN will consult the USNA Public Affairs Officer. 4.4 FINANCIAL /EMPLOYMENT ACTIVITIES 1. Midshipmen will not, without proper authority, either for themselves or as agen ts, engage in any business activity, financial dealing, or introduce any article for the purpose of trade within the limits of the USNA. Specifically, midshipmen shall not: a. Engage in any business or commercial financial activity on USNA grounds. b. Participate in any business or financial activity or represent any company that attempts to benefit or generate profit from interacting with members of the Brigade of Midshipmen. 4-5 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 c. Except as provided by the Joint Ethics Regulation, solici t contributions for gifts to a superior or accept gifts from other persons in government employment (does not apply to parents who are government employees). Voluntary gifts of nominal value may be made on a special occasion such as marriage, illness, or retirement. d. Use government owned equipment or IT resources for commercial or profit -making activity. e. Use or permit use of their midshipman position, title, or affiliation with USNA, to endorse any product, service, or enterprise or given the appearance of DoD/DON endorsement to a non - federal entity. 2. Midshipmen shall be in an authorized leave status and obtain written permission from the Commandant of Midshipmen to seek or hold formal outside employment. 3. Per the Joint Ethics Regulations, midshipmen may not gamble for money by any means, including online, while physically present on any U.S. Navy installation, including the USNA, Navy -Marine Corps Memorial Stadium, and Naval Support Activity Annapolis. Midshipmen may not gamble for money with playing cards, dice, or other apparatus or methods , in violation of local, state, or federal laws. 4. Midshipmen may not incur debts when there is no reasonable expectation of repaying them. 4.5 VEHICLES AND OTHER PERSONAL POSSESSIONS 1. 1/C Midshipmen may: a. Own, operate, and maintain an aut omobile within the Yard, provided they register their vehicles at the Pass and Tag Office and Commandant Operations, and display decals as directed. b. Park on the Yard in a properly marked 1/C parking spot per Commandant Operations permission and policy, in a paid parking facility, on private property if given permission by the owner, at the Navy -Marine Corps Memorial Stadium, or on the Naval Support Activity Annapolis Complex if authorized . c. All 1/C midshipmen who have registered their vehicle with Commandant Operations may park on the Yard from 1730 Friday (or Thursday when Friday is a holiday) until 2 hours prior to EOL on Sunday (or Monday when Mo nday is a holiday). Parking on the Yard after EOL and during the work week requires parking permission (pass or otherwise) per the most recent Parking Notice. 2. 2/C Midshipmen may: a. Own and operate a personal vehicle in the Annapolis area. b. Park in a paid parking facility, on private property if given permission by the owner, or at 4-6 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 the NMCMS or on the Naval Support Activity Annapolis Complex if authorized. c. Drive a vehicle on the Yard during approved town liberty hours and p ark for periods not to exceed 15 minutes. When parking, 2/C must adhere to all the 1/C parking rules (times and locations), and shall activate their “hazard” lights to signify short -term parking. d. Drive a vehicle on the Yard on leave if their family /sponsor family resides on the Yard. e. If in a “designated driver” status, park on the Yard overnight until 1000 the next morning. Midshipmen must either call Main Office (410 -293-5001) and have their name entered in the logbook or email moow@usna.edu to avoid a parking violation. 3. 3/C Midshipmen may: a. Operate a vehicle while in an authorized leave status, but not drive on the Yard, unless on leave and their family resides on the Yard. b. Not maintain an automobile “near” USNA. The first cities where 3/C may store/use vehicles in a direction away from USNA are Pasadena, Millersville, Crofton, Davidsonville, and Stevensville. When in these cities or further and on liberty, 3/C Midshipmen may drive their cars. If a 3/C Midshipman's home of record is closer to USNA than this area, they may drive their vehicle only in directions away from USNA and then in accordance with this policy. 4. 4/C Midshipmen may: a. Operate a vehi cle while in an authorized leave status, but not drive on the Yard unless on leave and their family resides on the Yard. b. Ride in personal vehicles with USNA staff or faculty, official adult sponsors, or their parents or legal guardians. c. Ride in personal vehicles during leave periods or when escorting guests to an official USNA function. 4-7 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 d. Ride in personal vehicles driven by 1/2/C Midshipmen . e. Not own or maintain an automobile “near” USNA as described by the cities listed in 3/C privileges above. If a 4/C Midshipman's home of record is within these cities and the midshipman owns a vehicle, then that midshipman may own and maintain that vehicle but shall not operate it unless in an authorized leave status. 5. With regard to the ownership, use, and storage of other forms of transportation: a. All midshipmen may own a bicycle, but (only store it in designated storage areas ), use public transportation , operate or ride in government vehicles for official business. b. Midshipmen may not own, operate, or ride a motorcycle, moped, motor driven bicycle, or ATV, including in an authorized leave status. 6. No midshipman may possess or bring into Bancroft Hall any animals, birds, reptiles, or fish. 4.6 CONTROLLE D SUBSTANCES 1. Regarding the use of alcohol: a. Midshipmen that choose to use alcohol must do so responsibly and abide by all federal, state, and local laws. If of legal drinking age and in a Yard or Town liberty status: (1) Upperclass (non -4/C) may consume alcohol at the Naval Academy Club or as a guest at a staff or faculty residence and may purchase and consume alcoholic beverages as permitted under federal, state, and local laws. (2) Upperclass on official training away from USNA may consume or possess alcohol in accordance with local laws only under circumstances prescribed by competent authority for the training program. (3) 4/C of legal drinking age may consume alcohol only when in an authorized leave status and not residing in Bancroft Hall. b. Midshipmen shall not: (1) Provide alcohol to a 4/C Midshipman or any midshipmen under the legal drinking age. (2) Report to a military obligation under the influ ence of alcohol. Midshipmen must be complete ly free from the effects of alcohol prior to commencing a duty status. In general, 12 hours is an acceptable thumb rule for duty and mandatory Brigade events (Forrestal Lecture, football games, etc.), and 8 hou rs is an acceptable thumb rule for come arounds or company formation, but the standard is to be free of the effects. (3) Consume alcohol while on duty or on watch. 4-8 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 Z 17 Feb 2023 (4) Consume alcohol at any USNA sponsored event except with the Comman dant of Midshipmen's written permission or the Battalion Officer's permission per Section 2.2. (5) Engage in irresponsible drinking, which includes but is not limited to, use of excessive profanity, aggressive/ disrespectful behavior, excessive stumbling /falling down, and vomiting. (6) Consume alcohol while in a restricted status. 2. Regarding the use of drugs and narcotics: a. The wrongful use, possession, or willful involvement with drugs, including narcotics, marijuana, ste roids, analogues (designer drugs), natural substances (e.g. fungi, excretions), chemicals used as inhalants, propellants and/or over -the-counter drugs or pharmaceutical compounds used to induce intoxication constitutes a serious breach of discipline. Any of these offenses will result in mandatory processing for separation from USNA and could result in subsequent action by appropriate civilian authority. b. Midshipmen shall not: (1) Possess, abuse, or distribute drugs or drug -abuse paraphe rnalia; (2) Possess or use a hookah on the Yard or while in uniform. (3) Possess or use narcotics, steroids, or controlled substances except as prescribed by a competent medical authority of the U.S. Armed Forces. (4) Possess or use of any products derived from the marijuana plant, regardless of the presence of THC, including but not limited to cannabidiol (CBD) and other hemp products (e.g., shampoos, lotions). (5) Use or possess any prescripti on drug after the time period for which it was prescribed or any medicine prescribed for another individual. c. Midshipman shall report any non -Navy or non -USNA prescription to the Brigade Medical Officer as soon as possible. 3. Regarding the use of tobacco products: a. Midshipmen may only smoke and “vape ” in the d esignated smoking area (benches and butt can) behind Bancroft Hall Seventh Win g, behind Eighth Wing, and behind Levy Center. b. Midshipmen may not visibly chew tobacco in un iform, unless in Company spaces and in accordance with Company policy. “Chewing” or using tobacco packets shall not interfere with normal speech when used in uniform. If a lip bulge or altered speech is detected, then the midshipman in uniform, by defini tion, is in violation of this regulation. 5-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 5: SAFETY AND SECURITY 5.1 PHYSICAL SAFETY 1. Midshipmen shall: a. Enter and depart the USNA only through attended gates or CAC controlled turnstiles. b. Enter and depart Bancroft Hall and USNA buildings only through prescribed doors. c. Wear reflective gear when conducting workouts after sunset and before sunrise, with the exception of workouts on Ingram Track. d. Use the “Ritchie Rd/Carvel Drive” route when going to NSAA individually by foot (anytime road guards are not provided by a larger training group). Baltimore Annapolis Blvd (Rt 648) is too narrow for safe passage of a lone runner or runners. The green path is 4/10 of a mile longer than the red and shall be used. 5-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 2. At any time, midshipmen shall not: a. Be present in a residence that is not the primary residence of the pr incipal leaseholder or owner at times when the principal leaseholder or owner is not also physically present in the residence. More specifically, midshipmen may not have parents/friends buy/rent condos or apartments or other dwellings for midshipmen to ef fectively have “off campus” residences. b. A midshipman may stay overnight at an approved USNA sponsor’s house when the sponsor is not present if they obtain written permission from both their sponsor and their Company Officer. c. Rent an Airbnb or enter into any other short -term rental agreement for space larger than a standard occupancy hotel room within a 150 -mile radius of USNA without permission from the Battalion Officer. The Company Officer shall be the approval authority for such r entals outside a 150 mile radius. Airbnb/VRBO may sometimes be the most economical option for certain approved movement orders and will be permitted as long as the details are included with the MO submission. d. Establish, pledge, or be active mem bers in non -academic fraternities, sororities, or similar organizations other than those sanctioned by the Commandant of Midshipmen via the ECA list. e. Visit or patronize any establishment or area listed as “off limits” to members of the armed services. f. Endeavor by words, gestures, or otherwise to beg, solicit, or hitchhike a ride in or on any motor vehicle, unless offered freely on the Yard. g. Participate in inherently hazardous activities, including but not limiting to : driving 150 miles or greater from USNA, skydiving, hang gliding, scuba diving, automobile racing, bungee cord jumping, outdoor rock climbing, shooting, mountaineering, all kayaking, rafting, flying, cliff diving, bull riding, or other activities that pose significant risk of injury to participants, without permission from the Battalion Officer. Permission is not required for Movement Orders for a specific high risk activity. h. Ride skateboards, scooters, roller blades, bikes, or any other wheeled o bject inside Bancroft Hall, or at night, except Knee Scooters as directed by appropriate medical personnel. i. Walk on the elevated “edge” portions between the stairs on both sides of Chauvenet and Michaelson Halls. Doing so is an unnecessary fall hazard. 3. While on the USNA complex, including NSAA and NMCMS , midshipmen will not: a. Enter any bodies of water adjacent to the USNA except during sanctioned evolutions. b. Talk or text on a handheld phone while driving. Hands free techn ology is acceptable. 5-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 c. Wear in -ear headphones while conducting physical training outdoors, except while on Ingram Track or Hospital Point. d. If in military uniform ( “Blue and Golds” is not a military uniform), w ear any type of headphones anywhere other than in a midshipman’s room or study classroom , not wear any type of headphones in King Hall at any time regardless of uniform, and not wear headphones between 0700 -1730 on weekdays in company area passageways and transit areas . Midshipmen must be able to hear “attention on deck” and also hear greetings from staff and officers during the workday . e. Climb on the roofs or ledges of any building, including the Mahan Hall clock tower or Chapel bell tower. f. Sit on windowsills, lean out of open windows, or hang items outside of the windows of any building to avoid creating “missile” hazards. g. Remove screens or inhibitors from the window of any building. h. Connect power cords to items in locked closets or modify the electrical wiring in any building. i. Keep flammable materials items in any rooms, except for cleaning supplies and lighters. 5.2 MILITARY IDENTIFICATION (COMMON ACCESS CARDS (CAC )) 1. CACs are the property of the U.S. Government. a. Midshipmen shall: (1) Maintain custody of their CAC at all times and only surrender it to a proper authority for identification or investigation. (2) Keep their CAC on their person at all times but should st ow it from plain sight. (3) Report to Midshipmen Personnel (MIDPERS ) to replace their CAC when the condition deteriorates due to normal wear and tear. (4) Submit a special request chit to replace a lost /stolen/damaged(non -functioning) CAC to their Company Officer (first occurrence) or their Battalion Officer (second occurrence) and report to MIDPERS to replace it. b. Midshipmen shall not: (1) Have in their possession more than one CAC . (2) Alter the ir CAC , possess a false or unauthorized military identification card; possess 5-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 any identification card that has been mutilated, erased, or altered; or possess any identification card bearing false or inaccurate information regarding a name, grade, service number, or date of birth. (3) Give or loan a CAC or any other identification document to any unauthorized person. (4) Use or possess false identification of any kind. (5) Make or allow others to make photocopies or duplicates of a military identification card or CAC, even at explicit request, except as permitted by DoDI 1000.13 (for medical purposes). 5.3 GOVERNMENT OWNED PROPERTY 1. With regard to government owned property, midshipmen will not: a. Conceal or fail to report to proper authority the loss, removal, destruction, or damage of government property entrusted to their care or custody. b. Remove without proper authority from its regular place of stowage or location any article of government property, including first aid equipment, lifesaving or emergency equipment, and stores and foodstuffs. c. Have in their possession any article of government property except as may be necessary for the performance of their duty or as au thorized by proper authority. d. Place names, designs, or marks except for official identification on any items furnished by the government. 2. Working through their Company First Lieutenant , midshipmen shall fill out and turn in a Room Discrepanc y Sheet at the beginning of each Academic Year. Midshipmen shall report any loss of or damage to items listed on the aforementioned sheet. Failure to do so may result in financial liability for room damages. 3. With regard to government owned vehicles, midshipmen shall: a. Operate a government owned vehicle only when specifically designated to do so, and then only for official business. b. Comply with all post, station, local, state, and Federal laws and regulations. c. Ride in government vehicles for official business only. 5.4 COMPUTER USE AND REGULATIONS 1. Each midshipman assumes the responsibility to operate computers within legal and ethical boundaries of any networks on or off the Yard. 5-5 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 a. Midshipmen shall: (1) Abide by all copyright laws extended to computer programs, software, and documentation. Federal regulations regarding the use of government property apply to computers, information systems, and Internet resources at the USNA. Midshi pmen must adhere to the Privacy Act of 1974 (Public Law 93 -579) and the Freedom of Information Act, which governs the collection and dissemination of information on individuals. (2) Use their legal name, alpha code, or billet as a username login for all computer networks established on USNA resources. (3) Safeguard files containing private information about individuals. (4) Keep a record of serial n umbers for issued computer equipment. (5) Use web cameras in an appropriate manner and only while the owner is seated in front of the camera. When not in use, laptops should remain closed with web cameras turned off. b. Midshipmen shall not: (1) Generate, store, send, or forward obscene, questionable, frivolous, or illegal material via a government computer or network system. (2) Use Brigade or Class -wide email distribution lists except as i t pertains to their billet or ECA responsibilities. (3) Transfer, loan, or copy vendor -developed software on multi -user computers. (4) Install site -licensed software on systems not covered by the specific license agreement. (5) Use, access, alter, or copy another person’s files, programs, or software without that person’s express consent. (6) Use government owned equipment or IT resources for commercial or profit -making activity. Midshipmen ma y track the ir own personal finances (budget, invest, etc.), but may not use their government for any type of “personal business” (selling on Amazon, mail orders, etc.). (7) Trap or report user information without warning other users and giving the users th e opportunity to leave the program before trapping begins. (8) Loan user accounts or provide their login credentials to any other person. (9) Deliberately alter or disrupt system performance. (10) Violate network security s ystems or break into or attempt to break into computer systems to which access is normally denied. 5-6 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 (11) Intentionally sabotage, intercept, modify, or illegally monitor network or PC performance. (12) Obtain or distribute illegal copies of music or video files. (13) Establish or use personal computers as servers with accessibility outside of the USNA. (14) Physically c onnect an Apple computer to any government network. 5.5 PERSONAL SECURITY 1. Midshipmen shall: Keep their address and telephone number updated in MIDS and Navy Family Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS). 2. Midshipmen shall not: a. Knowingly deliver official correspondence, forms, or records within their custody or control, or divu lge the contents of such correspondence, forms, or records to any person not authorized to receive them. b. If having access to information to carry out the duties of their billet or position, divulge that information to any person not privy to the same information through their billet or position. c. Have in their personal possession keys to access controlled spaces within Bancroft Hall unless such key is used in the performance of regularly assigned duties. d. Distribute questionnaire s or surveys to the Brigade of Midshipmen without getting approval from the officer in charge of the prospective polling group (Company Officer, Battalion Officer, Commandant’s Operations Officer to poll the Brigade ). Each approving authority will check for inadvertent collection of PII or other data that should not be consolidated. e. Make inappropriate videos or photographs. 6-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Y 26 Jan 2023 CHAPTER 6: CLASS RATES 6.1 BRIGADE WIDE RATES 1. All classes shall: a. Not use the center doors when entering/exiting the Rotunda other than ceremonial duties . b. Rate the privileges as noted in Table 6 -1. Use Smoke Hall Center Doors Use Center Alleyway in King Hall Use Outer Alleyway in King Hall Become a member of the Naval Academy Club (NABSD) Use 3/C Ladders in Bancroft Hall Use 2/C Doors and Ladders in Bancroft Hall 1/C Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 2/C Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 3/C No Yes No Yes Yes No 4/C No Yes No Yes No No Table 6 -1: Class Rates 6.2 ADDITIONAL 1/C MIDSHIPMEN RATES 1. 1/C Midshipman may move out of Bancroft Hall during spring intersessional leave with CO/SEL approval. a. 1/C Midshipmen must attend all mandatory obligations until graduation or they shall be required to move back into Bancroft Hall. Additionally, if midshipmen are found guilty of significant misconduct after moving out of Bancroft Hall, they may be directed to move back into Bancroft Hall. b. 1/C Midshipmen may enter a lease agreement following spring break of 1/C year. Midshipmen shall not reside in the residence until the authorized check -out date. c. 1/C Midshipmen may only check out of Bancroft Hall after passing an alpha inspection by a CO/SEL following return from intersessional leave. d. 1/C Midshipmen may choose to reside in Bancroft Hall through graduation. 6.3 4/C MIDSHIPMEN RATES 1. 4/C Midshipmen shall: 6-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Y 26 Jan 2023 a. Chop and square corners except when in administrative spaces, service shops, basement areas, the post office, an d 7th wing gym. 4/C will chop from 0630 -2000, Monday through Saturday, and from EOL -2000 on Sunday. b. Not use the Company Wardroom except for storage of perishable items in the refrigerator and in -company training approved by the Company Commander. c. Not have civilian clothes. d. Not use their personal electronic devices to function as a television , video game device, or any other entertainment (including social media) except during authorized Town L iberty times. 4/C may use their device with headphones (per section 5.3.d ) for audio (music, audiobooks, etc.) and prescribed classwork and professional training every day of the week. e. In Bancroft Hall and on the Yard: (1) Have a cover with them when wearing a uniform that requires a cover and “Plebe” their cover when not wearing it. 4/C may hold covers as they wish while off the Yard on town liberty. (2) Know daily rates, including, but not limited to the days, menus for the next thre e meals; names and billets of the OOW, SDO, MOOW for the current day, four -stripers and above; professional topic of the week; conversational knowledge of past professional topics; and conversational knowledge of three current news articles (international, national, and sports). (3) Not intentionally sleep anywhere other than their racks. (4) Be permitted to carry -on only in 4/C rooms, heads, the library, sporting events, and in academic buildings. (5) Not use curved walkway s in the ceremonial area (Moffett and Chambers Walk, etc.) (6) Not “carry on” in King Hall during normal and rolling tray meals unless granted by the highest ranking 1/C Midshipman at the table. In this regard, “carry on” is defined as: Rating the back of the chair and speaking freely. (7) Only return to their racks from 0755 -1145, 1330 -1520, and after signing TAP S Monday through Friday. 7-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 7: UNIFORMS AND APPEARANCE 7.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 1. Unless otherwise noted, Navy uniforms shall be worn per COMDTMIDNINST 1020.3 (series) at all times. Each member of the Naval Service is a representative of the U.S. Government, and their dress and conduct should reflect credit upon oneself, the USNA, the Naval S ervice, and the country. Midshipmen are expected to be in an inspection ready uniform at all times and are required to pass a weekly uniform inspection. a. Uniforms will be kept scrupulously clean with all devices and insignia bright and free from tarnish and corrosion. b. Hats, caps, and covers will be worn squarely on the head, bottom edge horizontal. c. Shoes will be kept well -shined and in good repair. Leather shoes are expected for normal daily operations. Corfam shoes are only authorized for inclement weather or during dress parades. d. Maintain sharp and correctly placed creases in all trousers, working -uniform shirts, an d Summer White shirts. The front of male shirts shall be creased vertically, bisecting the pockets. The back of the shirts shall be creased vertically with one bisecting the shirt and one on each side of the center line at equal spacing between three and five inches. 2. Midshipmen shall not, at any time: a. Wear frayed, torn, dirty, or otherwise mutilated clothing or wear any article of a Navy uniform in a manner that would bring discredit to the Naval Service. b. Wear uniforms in any mann er other than prescribed or wear hair ornaments, cosmetics, rings, earrings, necklaces, wristwatches, and bracelets when in uniform, except as authorized by COMDTMIDNINST 1020.3 (series). c. Have body alterations, tattoos, body art, brands, body pie rcings, or dental ornamentation located anywhere on the body that are prejudicial to good order, discipline and morale, or are of a nature to bring discredit on the Naval Service. Tattoos/body art that are obscene, sexually explicit, anti -American, anti -social, and/or advocate discrimination based on sex, race, religious, or ethnic origins are prohibited. In addition, tattoos/body art that symbolize affiliation with gangs, supr emacist or extremist groups, or advocate illegal drug use are prohibited. With regard to body alterations and tattoos, midshipman shall: (1) Route a chit (Appendix 3) through their Battalion Officer prior to attaining any types of body alterations, tattoos, or body art. (2) Ensure tattoos/body art are in accordance with USNAINST 6240.10 (series), to include content, size and location. 7-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 (3) Keep covered all body alterations required to be removed until the removal process is complete. d. Grow mustaches, beards, or other forms of facial hair. If a midshipman is diagnosed with Pseudofolliculitis Barbae, they will comply with BUPERSINST 1000.22 (series), NAVPERS 1000/1, NAVADMIN 064/22, and the following regulations: (1) Keep an electronic copy or photograph of their approved temporary facial hair waiver accessible on their smartphone and/or USNA google account. By policy, facial hair waivers cannot exceed 60 days. (2) If a subsequent temporary facial hair waiver or permanent waiver is later authorized, midshipmen shall also keep an electronic copy accessible by smartphone and/or their USNA google account. (3) Maintain beards to 1/4 inch in length and comply with all medical treatment recommendations. e. PT without a shirt on. 3. Female midshipmen shall be allowed to have a single perforation of each earlobe. 4. Midshipmen Black N Sweater/Society: a. Midshipmen who have received the Black N Sweater are allowed to wear their sweater on the Yard only and only on Halloween night. b. Members of the “Black N Society” who would like to wear their Black N sweater, will be mandated by the Conduct Chain of Command to hold a Noon Meal training with their respective companies at least one we ek prior to Halloween Dinner to educate their peers on the mistakes they have made, as well as the lessons they have learned and the importance of ownership and integrity. Following the completion of this training, Company Conduct Officers will submit the names of those wishing to wear the “Black N” on Halloween up to their Company Officer, via the Brigade Conduct/Aptitude Officer, for final approval. 7-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 7.2 AUTHORIZED UNIFORMS Class Ceremonial Areas MidStore King Hall Workout Gyms USNA Services ^ (see note) Academic Buildings, Nimitz UOD Yes Yes Yes Yes N/A Yes Yes NWU When UOD, *Medical, or Duty When UOD, *Medical, or Duty When UOD, *Medical, or Duty When UOD, *Medical, or Duty Yes When UOD, *Medical, or Duty Yes Blue and Golds *Medical After 1730 *Medical , After 1730 Yes for Dinner, *Medical Yes *Medical After 1730 Regulation PE Gear *Medical Specific cases only (Herndon) Never Never Yes Never Never Spirit Gear (Upperclass) Never Specific cases only Never Specific cases only Yes Never Never Civilian Clothes Never Per Class Rates when on liberty Per Class Rates when on liberty 1/C & 2/C , Fri-Sun on liberty Per Class Rates when on liberty Per Class Rates when on liberty Per Class Rates when on liberty *Medical = approved medical chit specifying that specific uniform, approved by the CO/SEL and a copy (hardcopy or electronic) with the midshipman. USNA Services = Barber/Salon, Uniform Store, NFCU Bank, MWR, Post Office Counter . 1. The authorized uniforms for midshipmen outside of Company Area during working hours (0630 -1730) are the Uniform of the Day, Working Uniform, or Regulation PE gear. The “Brigade Intramural Champions” t -shirt awarded semi -annually to the company with the highest Brigade intramural standing may be worn in lieu of regulation PE gear during the semester following its presentation. The tunnels under Chauvenet and Michelso n are considered passage to/from other areas, therefore uniforms for other areas are permitted in the tunnels for passage. 2. “Spirit Gear” is Navy, USMC, or USNA related (Company, ECA , etc) attire and may be accompanied by shower shoes after 1730 when i n Bancroft Hall. Outside of Bancroft Hall, spirit gear requires closed toe shoes. Spirit gear clothing must be in good condition (no tears or ripped clothing), and tank tops are specifically not allowed. 3. Teams with designated practice uniforms may w ear the practice uniform to, during, and from practice only. Midshipmen varsity and club athletes will wear regulation PE gear or “Spirit Gear” any time they are not directly involved in a team activity. Issued intramural uniforms are to be worn to, duri ng, and from intramural games only. 7-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 4. Blue and Gold Jogging Suits may be worn to class only when absolutely necessary for a physical injury (approved medical chit required and will be kept on person) and when transiting to and from surgery off of the Y ard. If midship men can walk unassisted, they shall NOT transit T-Court, Stribling Walk, or the ceremonial areas of the Yard in Blue and Gold Jogging Suit s. 5. If midshipmen require crutches , a knee -scooter, wheelchair, or other ambulatory equipment , they should still be in NWU if possible, but if NWU is not practical based on their medical status, these rare cases may transit all areas in Blue and Gold to facilitate timely class attendance. Scooters must be kept at /below walking speed. 6. While in transit and/or attending class, Service Dress with Relaxed Fit (“Ike”) jacket may only be worn by midshipmen on a weekday duty status that require Service Dress Blue. Brassards are not required in this uniform. 7. Midshipmen shall n ot conduct p hysical training in any of the ceremonial areas. The ceremonial area is shown below and includes: Porter Road, Stribling Walk (bounded by Bancroft Hall T -Court, Chauvenet Hall, Michelson Hall, Sampson -Mahan -Maury Halls, Larson Hall, and the Chapel), the portion of Decatur Rd. adjacent to Leahy Hall and the Museum and Truxtun Rd. in front of the Naval Academy Club, and the perimeter of Worden Field The approved physical r oute for these activities is around the perimeter of these boundaries and includes the road behind the Naval Academy Club, the road behind Larson Hall and the Chapel, and the roads behind Porter Rd. and Upshur/Rodgers Rd. housing. 8. Eight -point covers a re required for all midshipmen at all outdoor formations . Yard Patrol (YP) ball caps are authorized for YP midshipmen when not at outdoor formation . Midshipmen assigned Surface Warfare and Submarines may wear ship ball caps in coveralls and NWU when not at outdoor formation. 9. Sunbathing is only allowed on Hospital Point in locations that do not interfere with organized practices or individual workouts, must occur in issued USNA swimgear, and with a towel (no mattresses, blankets, or pillows). 10. Midshipmen shall not fish or loiter on the Farragut Fields rocky seawall. 8-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 8: BANCROFT HALL CUSTOMS AND MIDSHIPMEN FACILITIES 8.1 GENERAL GUIDANCE 1. Midshipman rooms are common barracks and, as such, Midshipmen are expected to maintain rooms in a condition that reflects the high standards of cleanliness and professionalism exemplified by officers in the Fleet. Privacy, while respected in a professional sense, is still limited. 2. Midshipmen shall not maintain personal belongings or other articles in any locker, closet, or space in Bancroft Hall that is not regularly assigned to them unless receiving permission from proper authority. Overheads (ceilings) and ECA spaces are not authorized for personal gear. 3. Midshipmen shall not enter or use any space which is locked or known to be restricted except as authorized. 4. Midshipmen shall not use elevators anywhere on the Yard unless: a. They are in Nimitz Library . b. They are in possession of a medical chit authorizing the use of elevators. c. They are in an academic building after 1730. d. They are escorting/talking with faculty or staff. e. They are moving heavy or delicate lab equipment in an academic building that is best moved in an elevator. f. They are in Bancroft Hall transporting wheeled recycling bins, wheeled trash bins, or other heavy or bulky items per responsibilities assigned to their Duty Section or during move -in periods. Elevator doors shall not be held open as they will “trip offline” and require a reset that is not available after hours. 5. Midshipmen shall: a. Occupy their assigned room and live with at least one other midshipman. b. Maintain rooms in a neat and orderly condition at all times and in Bravo condition when unoccupied. c. Keep a personal computer while a member of the Brigade. d. Secure all valuables, prescription medicine, and swords in their confid ential locker. Each midshipman is responsible for keeping their confidential locker locked at all times. 8-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 e. Report all discrepancies to their company First Lieutenant. f. Knock and await acknowledgment before entering another person's room. g. Dispose of their room trash at nearby dumpsters at a sanitary periodicity (no longer than weekly without perishable food, every two days if there is food). h. Keep all food in airtight containers. i. Display only white sheets, white pillowcases, and a white shower curtain. j. Possess only furniture issued by the First Lieutenant, except as noted below in paragraph 8.1.6. d. k. Ensure all materi al on personal bulletin boards is in good taste. l. Maintain locker stowage per COMDTMIDNINST 1020.3 (series) (uniform regs) for Class A inspections. 6. Midshipmen may: a. Lay wet athletic gear in the corridor between 1730 and 0700. A drying rack may be placed in the passageway immediatel y outside of a midshipman’s room between 1730 and 0700. b. Lock their doors after taps and when all occupants are absent during a leave period. c. Have two blenders per wardroom (and shall be cleaned after each use). d. Have the following items in their room: (1) One flame retardant flag, per occupant, may be hung from the bulkhead using approved Command strips. Command strips must be removed annually. Pre -Authorized flags are: American flag, Brigad e of Midshipmen fl ag, Navy or Marine Corps flag, Navy Jack, current U.S. State flag, or country of origin flag for 4 -year foreign exchange midshipmen. Any other flags require CO/SEL approval. (2) One stand or bookcase measuring no more than 36 inches tall, 24 i nches wide, and 20 inches deep. (3) A solid navy blue or black bath mat. (4) A personal office chair (if approved by CO/SEL), but the standard issue chair must remain in the room and all chairs issued by the Company First Lieutenant r emain accountable items. (5) One drying rack, no larger than 48 inches tall, 36 inches wide, and 20 inches deep. 8-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 (6) Two potted plants in their room. Each pot must be 12" or less in diameter, and plants are limited to 12" in height f rom where it exits the pot. Midshipmen must keep their plants clean (no soil or water spillage) to meet Class B and Class A room standards. All plants must be removed before summer moveout. Any final move -out room inspection will be UNSAT if a plant is present. Plants cannot be thrown away because it will exceed the capacity of trash pickup and is not meant for landfill in the state of Maryland. Midshipmen must have plans for summer plant storage if they chose to maintain plants in their room. (7) Personal fans, but they may not be placed “in” any windows. (8) Coffee makers and water heaters with automatic shutoff features. NOTE: COs/SELs may approve special request chits for one compact “energy star” refrigerators, no larger th an 3.4 cubic feet, per 1/C room. CO/SEL may also approve up to 20 more total refrigerators per company for 2/C and 3/C Midshipmen , with medical/dietary needs taking priority. 4/C may be authorized a refrigerator only for medical/dietary need, and shall count against the 20 extra per company. 7. Midshipmen will not: a. Put posters, unapproved flags, blankets, sheets, or unapproved adhesives (glue, permanent velcro, permanent stickers) of any kind on bulkheads or hang them from the ceiling in any manner. Corkboards are the only approved location for any such items, as applicable. b. Structurally alter rooms (e.g., drill holes in bulkheads; remove ceiling tiles; remove, tamper, or bend installed rack (bed) rails, etc.) or damage/alter room f urnishings (e.g., remove desk non -skid strips, damage or alter issued chairs, etc.). c. Store or hang items in/from the overheads, cut or remove ceiling tiles, or hang items from ceiling tiles or rack (bed) rails. d. Play music loud enough to be heard outside the room. Be considerate of others. e. Possess the following items in Bancroft Hall: (1) Explosives, fireworks, ammunition, candles, or highly flammable materials other than cleaning su pplies or hygiene related liquids. (2) Firearms, switchblades, dangerous weapons, tasers, or compressed air or CO2 projectile weapons. (3) Alcohol, empty alcohol containers, unauthorized drugs, unauthorized prescription medicines, or other controlled substances. (4) Space heaters or air conditioning units. 8-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 (5) Irons without automatic shut -off protection. (6) Pornographic materials. (7) Floor lamps or rugs other than an approved bath mat. (8) Electrical cooking appliances (hot plates, rice cookers, toaster ovens, etc. ) 8.2 USE OF MIDSHIPMAN FACILITIES 1. “Midshipman facilities” refers to all athletic, academic, or recreational facilities (Mitscher) authorized for midshipman use. 2. While in academic and recreation buildings, midshipmen shall not: a. Escort unofficial guests. b. Sit on the decks of hall ways or the ladders of academic buildings. c. Enter or use spaces without proper authorization, particularly laboratories that are normally secured during off -hours. 3. While in athletic facilities: a. Midshipmen may use authorized faciliti es only during their hours of operation, and as specified by the table of priorities. b. Midshipmen shall follow all rules and regulations pertaining to a specific venue, including using towels when exercising, weight lifting, racking weights after use, and properly stowing all equipment. c. Midshipmen shall not swim in any facility except during authorized times and in the presence of a USNA -certified lifeguard. 4. Midshipmen may hang hammocks only on Hospital Point . 5. With regards to the Naval Academy Club : a. 1/C Midshipmen may become members and u se the club facilities during approved periods of Yard and Town liberty , and leave. a. 2/C, 3/C, 4/C Midshipmen may use the Naval Academy Club during town liberty or while on leave on ly as the guest of their sponsors, immediate family members, or staff members. b. Uniform will be authorized liberty attire appropriate to class. 8-5 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 6. With regards to Smoke Park: a. Midshipmen may use Smoke Park for leisure, study, and meeting with friends and family. It is also a venue for Battalion, Company, team or ECA gatherings, and is used for formations. Smoke Park is to be respected as a Brigade common space as well as a location open to use by the general public. Midshipmen shall not play contact sports, litter, or smoke in this area. b. Midshipmen shall be in the Uniform of the Day or PT Gear while in Smoke Park during working hours. After working hours, Spirit Gear is authorized, per MIDREGS. 8.3 KING HALL 1. King Hall is the Brigade's wardroom. While in King Hall, midshipmen are expected to address each other in a civil manner with a conversational tone, observe service etiquette, and maintain proper military bearing. 2. Mid shipmen shall: a. Request permission from the Squad Leader or most senior individual to join the mess if late or from a different Squad. b. For Brigade meals, remain seated until excused by the Squad Leader or most senior individual at the ta ble. 3. Midshipmen shall not: a. Eat any food until the order “seats” is given, throw food, or remove food items from unoccupied tables. b. Enter the staff areas (galley) or use King Hall as a passageway during non -meal hours. c. Remove silverware, serving containers, or reusable food items from King Hall. d. Place backpacks in any location which inhibits the flow of traffic or the conduct of King Hall operations. 8.4 MIDSHIPMAN ROOM INSPECTION STANDARDS 1. Alpha Condition . Midshipmen rooms will be subjected to formal inspection at least one time each semester. Formal inspections will comply with the inspection standards of Alpha Condition listed in Appendix 1. 2. Bravo Condition. This condition will be maint ained whenever the room is not occupied. Rooms shall be inspected per Appendix 2 at least weekly. 8-6 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 8.5 SHARED COMPANY SPACES 1. Bancroft Hall, a National Treasure, is the cornerstone of this great institution and midshipmen will treat Bancroft Hall and all facilities as they would their own home. 2. Company wardrooms are meant to serve as a common space for Upperclass Midshipmen to relax and study. 4/C Midshipmen will not lounge in the wardroom unless specifically authorized by competent authority. Midshipmen may reserve the wardroom for official functions or class meetings with the approval of the Company Commander. 3. Midshipmen are responsible for reading and abiding by all di rectives and policies made by company leadership. Directives and policies will be available to the Company physically or electronically for reference. 4. 1/C are responsible for a neat and orderly appearance of the halls within their Company area. 8.6 LAUNDRY ROOMS 1. The laundry rooms operate on a “first come, first served” basis with no priority privilege by class during authorized times. 2. Midshipmen will maintain the laundry rooms in an orderly fashion and remove their laundry as soon as it is finished washing or drying. Abandoned items will be discarded. 3. Color dyeing of clothing or articles and washing of painted sheet signs are prohibited. 8.7 SEVENTH AND EIGHTH WING LOCKERS 1. 1/C, 2/C, and 3/C Midshipmen shall: a. Occupy only one locker and identify it by posting their name, alpha code and company. Midshipmen with double locker may have their property confiscated. b. Be responsible for their personal property and lock their locker when not present. All gear left adrift will be discarded. 2. 4/C Midshipmen will not store items in 7th or 8th Wing lockers. 3. No food is allowed to be stored in the lockers. 8.8 BICYCLE STORAGE ROOMS 1. Midshipmen will keep all bicycles in designated bicycle storage rooms. Authorized storage rooms include: 8th Wing Mezzanine Brigade Bike Room (8M32C), Battalion Bike Rooms (3019, 5040, 7004, 4015, 6040, 8003), and Company B ike Rooms (2014, 4037, 4040, 4046, 5412J). 8-7 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 2. Midshipmen may not store bicycles in any space not designated as a bicycle storage room. 8.9 STEERAGE 1. 1/C, 2/C, and 3/C Midshipmen may sit down or take -out in spirit gear. 2. 4/C Midshipmen may take -out only . 9-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 CHAPTER 9: ADMINISTRATION 9.1 REQUIRED READING 1. All midshipmen shall subscribe/gain access to the Brigade Google Calendars (the Brigade calendar and applicable Class calendar), review each day, and are responsible for attending the mandatory events outlined therein. 2. All midshipmen shall review the following publications within two weeks after returning for reform or when assuming a new billet: a. Midshipmen regulations. b. Midshipman Training Program c. Uniform regulations. d. All instructions pertaining to their billet. e. Administrative Performance and Conduct System Manual. f. Brigade Honor Program Instruction. g. Midshipmen Aptitude for Commissioning System. h. All available Battalion and Company policies and instructions. 9.2 LEAVE PROCEDURES 1. CONUS Regular Leave a. Midshipmen will ordinarily be authorized leave during the summer, Thanksgiving holiday, winter holidays, Spring Break, and at other times designated by the Commandant of Midshipmen. b. All midshipmen going on leave must: (1) Subm it a MIDS leave request no less than one week prior to the start of leave. In order to ensure proper accountability, leave chits must be submitted and approved for all summer periods when a midshipman is not on approved training or travel orders and is no t residing in Bancroft Hall. If participating in 5.1.2.g or similar high -risk activities, an ORM worksheet must accompany the leave chit during initial routing. (2) Update leave address information in MIDS two days prior to the start of leave. (3) Not depart until after the last military obligation, including exams and clas ses. 9-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 (4) Sign out with the CO, SEL, Company Commander, or CDO directly before departure. (5) Possess an electronic or hard copy of their leave chit at all times while in a leave status. (6) Have sufficient funds available to purchase commercial airline tickets if using military flights during the leave period. (7) Inform the Company Officer, SEL, or the OOW if they encounter a problem while on leave or if requesting to return late from leave. (8) 3/C and 4/C Midshipmen shall not wear civilian clothes on the USNA complex during leave periods unless their family resides on the Yard and they are in an approved leave status. 3/C and 4/C Midshipmen whose families reside on the Yard will w ear the Uniform of the Day when departing from, returning to, or visiting Bancroft Hall while in a leave status. 2. OCONUS Regular Leave a. Midshipmen who desire to leave the continental limits of the United States must submit a “Permission to Lea ve CONUS” form from MIDPERS prior to departure on leave. b. Prior to taking leave outside the continental limits of the United States, midshipmen must meet all requirements specified by MIDPERS per regulations and directives dictating overseas trave l for service members, including immunizations and AT/FP training. c. International Midshipmen taking leave in their home country require Company Officer approval. If traveling to another country besides their home country, they will follow the nor mal OCONUS process after contacting their respective Attaché to ensure compliance to their home country’s travel requirements in addition to procedures required for U.S. midshipmen . Additionally, and in any case for traveling outside the United States whi le matriculating at USNA, international Midshipmen must personally visit the Director, Nominations and Appointments prior to travel and obtain appropriate I -20 certification/signature. d. Midshipmen must gain approval from the Battalion Officer befo re departure. In order to ensure proper accountability, leave chits must be submitted and approved for all summer periods when a midshipman is not on approved training or travel orders and is not residing in Bancroft Hall. e. Upperclass (non -4/C) midshipmen departing from and returning to the Yard on OCONUS leave may do so in civilian clothes in accordance with Fleet AT/FP regulations. 3. Residing in Bancroft Hall a. Midshipmen may occupy their normally assigned room if they desire to remai n at the USNA during a leave period of the Academic Year. Summer ro om assignments may vary. 9-3 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 b. Midshipmen who remain in their rooms are required to inform their CO/SEL and muster for taps according to the policies published for that leave period. 4. Special Leave a. When a difficulty, such as serious illness or death, affects a midshipman's immediate family, the midshipmen will be entitled to request leave within the normal approval timeframe. b. Immediate family is defined as a mid shipman's father, mother, brother, sister, guardian, or relative standing in loco parentis. In loco parentis is defined as a person who stood in place of a parent to the midshipman 24 hours a day for at least five years before the midshipman became 21 years old or entered military service. c. Special leave may be authorized to attend funerals of relatives or family friends and other important family events and functions that are not considered emergencies. d. Only the Battalion Officer, or th e OOW if outside working hours, may authorize special leave. Special leave will normally only authorize a midshipman to miss up to three days of class. 5. Convalescent Leave a. Midshipmen shall reside in Bancroft Hall during the recovery period f rom illness or surgery. If a doctor recommends a midshipman be placed on convalescent leave, then that midshipman shall seek authorization from the chain of command and not take leave until authorization is granted. A midshipman’s Company Officer retains final authority for convalescent leave taken inside Bancroft Hall. b. Convalescent leave may be taken outside of Bancroft Hall only if the midshipman will be residing under the care of a parent, legal guardian, or sponsor and with the approval of t he Battalion Officer. Convalescent leave outside of Bancroft Hall is the exception, not the norm. c. If a midshipman cannot get into or out of a standard rack, then that midshipman shall be allowed to place their rack on the floor, or other accommodations will be made by the midshipman’s chain of command. 9.3 HONORS LISTS 1. Honors lists are p ublished at the beginning of each semester. The list effective during the Fall semester is based on grades earned during Spring semester. Grades in the regular summer programs are included with the Fall semester grades to determine the list effective dur ing the Spring semester. Summer work that is reported as incomplete because of hospitalization or other authorized reasons will not disqualify the midshipman from these lists for which they are otherwise qualified. Courses taken in the summer academic re medial programs will not be included in the computation for the Honors Lists. 9-4 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 2. Midshipmen who meet the following criteria will be placed on the Superintendent’s List and are required to wear a gold star on their uniform. Minimum SQPR Conduct Grade Aptitude Grade PE Grade PFA Score Other Superintendent’s List (Gold Star) 3.4 A A B B No D, F or I in any course Commandant's List (Silver Star) 2.9 A B B B Dean’s List (Bronze Star) 3.4 B B C C No D, F or I in any course 3. Midshipmen placed on the Superintendent’s, Commandant’s, or Dean’s List must wear the appropriate insignia (gold, silver, or bronze star) in order to rate the privileges associated (extr a weekends) with each honors list. NOTE: A midshipman will wear the highest precedence star if on more than one list. 9.4 ROUTINE FOR VOLUNTARY GRADUATE EDUCATION PROGRAM (VGEP) MIDSHIPMEN 1. Midshipmen participating in VGEP are enrolled in graduate education programs at local universities. VGEP is a privilege and is not intended to take priority over military education and preparation for Naval Service. 2. VGEP Midshipmen will coordinate their schedules with their Company Officer prior to the beginning of their graduate programs. Schedules will allow VGEP Midshipmen to attend class, conduct research, use university libraries, write papers, study for exams, and participate in seminars and other activities related to the successful completion of their master's degree program. 3. VGEP Midshipmen may: a. Be excused from military o bligations that conflict with specific VGEP responsibilities. b. Wear civilian clothes to VGEP classes. c. Take leave with their civilian university counterparts if it does not conflict with other midshipman duties. 4. VGEP Midshipmen shall: 9-5 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 a. Muster with the Company if not participating in VGEP activities and at least once per day. b. Inform the Company CDO if they will be required to miss TAPS. c. Participate in military responsibilit ies (drill, parades, stand wat ch) and intramural sports on a not -to-interfere basis with their VGEP academic schedule. d. Participate in PE courses. e. Contact the accounting branch of the Midshipman Food Services Division (MFSD) to coordinate reimbursement for missed mea ls. 9.5 GUESTS IN BANCROFT HALL 1. Guests to King Hall: a. With the authorization of the CO or SEL, midshipmen may invite relatives and guardians, Officers and Enlisted members of the armed forces (O -5 and below), faculty members, and other guest s to dine in King Hall. b. With prior approval from the Commandant of Midshipmen, midshipmen may invite members of Congress, special or distinguished guests, and Officers of the armed forces (O -6 and above) to dine in King Hall. c. Midshipmen hosts will purchase all guest meal tickets in advance from MFSD. 2. Guests to Steerage or Smoke Hall area must be escorted by a midshipman. 3. Instructors in Bancroft Hall after working hours (1730) must be escorted at all times. 4. Midshipmen shall not allow unescorted visitors access to corridors , terraces, or MIDN rooms. 9.6 SPECIAL EVENTS FOOD SERVICE SUPPORT 1. MFSD will support Company dining ins/outs and picnics, with Company Officer approval, to the fullest extent that resources allow. Requests must be submitted to MFSD at least two weeks prior to commencement of the event. Off-Yard e vents must take plac e during town liberty. 9.7 COMMISSIONING EXAMINATIONS AND MEDICAL CARE RECEIVED AT LOCATIONS OTHER THAN THOSE IN BRIGADE MEDICAL 1. Midshipmen shall: a. Schedule appointments related to commissioning through the BMU pre -commissioning office at th e medical clinic. 9-6 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 b. Notify the pre -commissioning office at least 24 hours in advance if they cannot keep the appointment. c. Wear the Uniform of the Day to all non-invasive appointments (counseling , etc.) outside the USNA complex. For surgeries, radiology studies, physical evaluations and tests, and when the medical provider specifies, midshipmen may wear Blue and Golds to facilitate those evaluations. d. Contact Main Office and their CO/SEL if admitted to a hospital as soon as f easible. e. Not get corrective eye surgery (aka refractive surgery) after September 10th of 1/C year. f. Midshipmen may not schedule elective surgery, to include refractive surgery, that is expected to impede their ability to take examinations during any examination period. Midshipmen also may not schedule elective surgery during mandatory summer sch ool. 2. When on leave and liberty, midshipmen are entitled to civilian medical and dental care at government expense. Emergency care does not require prior approval. Urgent and Routine care does require a referral, which can be obtained via BMU. In all cases, individuals who receive care outside of Brigade Medical must make an appointment with BMU on the first working day after return to USNA to document care and coordinate ongoing care. Reimbursement for care of an elective, non -emergency nature is n ot authorized. Midshipmen who desire non -emergent surgery from a non -federal source must meet with the BMO and receive documentation of counseling about the risks of such surgery prior to scheduling pre -operative appointments or surgery. a. Midship men who become injured or ill during liberty or leave shall: (1) Report to the nearest military medical treatment facility if practical or contact the duty health care provider. (2) Notify the duty health care provider, OOW and their CO/SEL. (3) Direct civilian physicians to send all bills or claims to the Health Benefits Advisor, NHC Annapolis, 695 Kinkaid Road Annapolis, MD 21402. b. Upon return to the Naval Academy, midshipmen shall: (1) Repor t to BMU for an in -house evaluation. (2) Bring all documentation of care and any claims to BMU in order to initiate payment process. 3. Hospitalization: a. Midshipmen who are admitted to a military hospital shall comply with Midshipmen 9-7 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 Regulations and applicable regulations issued by the hospital Commanding Officer. b. Immediately after discharge from a hospital, midshipmen shall report to BMU and then to the CO/SEL. If a military hospital issues discharge orders to a midshipman recommending convalescent leave, then that midshipman shall immediately contact their C O/SEL or the OOW to establish whether convalescent leave is authorized. 9.8 USNA -SPONSORED SOCIAL EVENTS 1. As a general rule, any USNA -sponsored social event (e.g., dinner, dance, ball, etc.) is considered a military function. As such, all midshipmen attending will be in uniform – unless otherwise specifically promulgated. As a point of clarity, midshipmen a re required to be in uniform at the following events (not an all -inclusive list): a. Service Assignment/Community Assignment Dinners , Service Birthday Balls, Ring Dance, and Graduation Ball. 2. A social occasion hosted by an officer, SEL, or other staff member (e.g., dinner, backyard BBQ, etc.) at the staff member’s house is a personal event. The hosting staff may prescribe the Uniform of the Day or civilian clothing (if rated), as desired. 9.9 PARENTHOOD, MARRIAGE, AND PREGNANCY 1. Parenthood is defined as having legal, financial or custodial obligations for a child or children, as determined by court adjudication, self -admission, or other evidence. Any midshipman who becomes pregnant, causes the pregnancy of another, or has incurred the oblig ations of parenthood, must report the condition to their chain of command. a. Midshipmen who become pregnant and choose not to resign will be allowed to go on a leave of absence. b. Midshipmen who are pregnant or have incurred the obligations of parenthood and who fail to resign or request a leave of absence will be separated. 2. Midshipmen may not marry or be married. 3. For detailed instructions and procedures, refer to COMDTMIDNINST 1531.2 (series) “Procedures and Instructions in cases of Midshipman Pregnancy/Parenthood/ Dependency.” 9.10 CHANGE PROPOSAL PROCESS 1. Change proposals to this instruction shall be submitted using an Action/Decision Memo located on the Co mmandant’s webpage under “Documents and Forms.” An example is provided in Appendix 4. A-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 APPENDIX A Class Alpha Room Inspection Room Number: _________________________________________ Result: Pass / Fail ICOR: ________________________ Inspector Signature/Date: __________________________ Gross discrepancies. A grade of UNSAT on any of the following items constitutes an overall UNSAT for the inspection.  (1) Deck stripped and w axed , no excessive dirt/wax build -up in the corners/around edges .  (2) Beds made with issued lines, 6” fold, corners tucked at 45 degrees.  (3) No excessive dirty laundry in locker. No odor emanating.  (4) No mold in shower and/or on shower curtain.  (5) Rifle and/or sword clean and secured appropriately. Routine items. A total of four UNSATs on any of the remaining items listed constitutes an overall UNSAT for the inspection. Inspection Ready :  A white glove, black sock, ruler, pen, and a room inspection chit on the desk nearest the door.  All lockers, drawers, and medicine cabinets are open. If MIDN not present, confidential locker stays shut.  All lights on , trash empty, no gear adrift. Lockers :  All food stored in air -tight containers.  Closet stowage dark to light, left to right.  Shoes clean and stowed white to black, top to bottom.  Folded clothing neat, aligned to shelf edge.  Confidential lockers clean and orderly. Windows and Blinds :  Windows shut, sills free of dust and dirt.  Window glass clean and spot free on the inside.  Blinds thoroughly cleaned and dust - free.  Blinds at half -mast and open. Sink and Shower :  Shower walls and floor clean and dry.  Shower curtain clean and dry.  Brightwork clean and free of spots.  Medicine cabinet neatly arranged.  Washbasin clean and dry.  Clean towels folded neatly.  Mirrors free of streaks and spots.  Cleaning gear stowed neatly underneath sink.  No items in shower. Desks :  Drawers dusted and the contents stowed neat and orderly.  Books stored vertically, tall to short, left to right, aligned with shelf edge.  Electrical cords arranged neatly and safely.  Material on bulletin boards shall be appropriate and arranged neatly.  Chairs clean and dust free.  Computers and monitors clean and dusted. B-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 APPENDIX B CLASS BRAVO ROOM INSPECTION Room Number: _________________________________________ Result: Pass / Fail ICOR: ________________________ Inspector Signature/Date: __________________________ a. Gross Discrepancies. A grade of UNSAT on any of the following items constitutes an overall UNSAT for the inspection.  Deck mopped clean and swept.  No excessive dirty laundry in locker. No odor emanating .  No mold in shower and/or shower curtain.  Door must be open at a 90 degree angle when the room is unoccupied. b. Routine items. A total of three or more UNSATs on any of the following items constitutes an overall UNSAT for the inspection:  All lights and electrical equipment off.  All surfaces clean and dusted.  Nothing hung from bulkheads (other than flags), overheads, closets, racks, or doors.  Racks neatly made with clean linen and a pillow (no blankets on racks).  No unauthorized furniture or appliances present.  No gear adrift.  Confidential lockers will be locked.  Blinds at half -mast and open.  Bulletin board and desk material appropriate and neat.  No rugs in room except shower mat, which must be clean.  Shower walls, curtain, and deck clean.  Medicine cabinets clean and neatly arranged.  Mirrors and bright work clean  Material deficiencies reported to the Company 1st LT and documented on the roo m discrepancy sheet  All rifles and swords locked. C-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 APPENDIX C SPECIAL REQUEST FOR BODY ALTERATION (MIDSHIPMAN) 1. I, , Alpha , Company have read USNAINST 6240.10F and understand the U.S. Naval Academy policy regarding body alterations are as follows: a. Tattoos and Body Art. Four criteria will be used to determine whether tattoos/body art/brands are permitted for Midshipmen and M/C: content, location, size, and cosmetic. Failure to comply with established acceptable tattoo criteria as stated, is a violation of midshipmen regulations and may subject me to disciplinary action to include involuntary separation. (1) Content. Tattoos located anywhere on the body that are prejudicial to good order, discipline, morale or are of a nature to bring discredit upon the naval service are prohibited. For example, tattoos that are obscene, sexually explicit, or advocate discrimination based on sex, race, religion, ethnicity, or national origin are prohibited. In addition, tattoos that symbolize affiliation with gangs, supremacist or extremist groups, or advocate illegal drug use are prohibited. Waivers will not be granted for tattoos with prohibited content. (2) Location. No tattoos are permitted on the head, face (to include ear), ne ck, and scalp. Permissible tattoos on the torso area of the body shall not be visible through white uniform clothing. Chest tattoos will not be visible when v -neck undergarments are worn underneath any uniform. (3) Size. Leg and arm tattoos c an be of any size. (4) Cosmetic Tattoos. Cosmetic tattoos are authorized to correct medical conditions requiring such treatment. For purposes of this regulation, cosmetic tattooing refers to medical or surgical procedures conducted by a licens ed, qualified medical professional. b. Mutilation. Intentional mutilation of any part of the body is prohibited. Mutilation is defined as the intentional, radical alteration of the body, head, face, or skin for the purpose of, or resulting in, an abnormal appearance. Examples include, but are not limited to: (1) Split, forked, or pierced tongue; (2) Pierced nose, lip, eyebrow, or other areas of the face or body; (3) Foreign objects affixed to or inserted under the skin to create a design or pattern; (4) Enlarged or stretched holes in ears (other than normal piercing); (5) Intentional scarring on neck, face, scalp; or (6) Intentional burns creating a design or pattern. C-2 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 c. Dental Ornamentation. The use of gold, platinum, or other veneers or caps for purposes of dental ornamentation is prohibited. For purposes of this regulation, ornamentation is defined as decorative veneers or caps. Teeth, whether natural, capped, or veneered, will not be ornamented with designs, jewels, initials, etc. 2. Thoroughly describe any desired alterations below. The written description shall accurately describe the type, nature, location, and size of the proposed body alteration and translate any foreign language or symbology contained in the proposed alteration, as applicable. 3. Upon completing the proposed body alteration, I will photograph and document the body alteration wi th the Body Alteration Review Board. For the sake of modesty and privacy, only close -up photographs of alterations normally covered by a regulation swimsuit shall be submitted for review. 4. By signing below, I voluntarily agree to undergo all body alte ration treatment or removal required by the U.S. Naval Academy Body Alteration Review Board for alterations that do not comply with U.S. Naval Academy policy at my own expense. I understand that military treatment facilities may not be able to provide tre atment or removal services and I may have to use a civilian facility at my own expense. 5. I enter into the agreement voluntarily, of my own free will. 6. I understand the policies stated above, and I agree to not receive any body alteration without prior permission from my chain of command after the signing of this statement. I understand that deviation from USNAINST 6240.10F may result in conduct action against me or an order for removal. I further understand that these guidelines are designed to ke ep me only within U.S. Navy standards. 7. Furthermore, I understand that the U.S. Marine Corps Tattoo policy as outlined in MCBul 1020 is more restrictive than the USNA policy and any desire to commission into the Marine Corps requires compliance with MC Bul 1020. Failure to comply with U.S. Marine Corps tattoo policy may result in my inability to commission into the U.S. Marine Corps. _______________________ Midshipman Signature/Date Approve: Disapprove: Body Alteration Review Board Recorder Approve: Disapprove: SEL Signature/Date Approve: Disapprove: Company Officer Signature/Date Approve: Disapprove: Battalion Officer Signature/Date D-1 COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6Z 17 Feb 2023 APPENDIX D MIDREGS MODIFICATION REQUEST ACTION/DECISION MEMO DD Mmm YYYY FOR: COMMANDANT OF MIDSHIPMEN, U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY FROM: ORIGINATORS RANK AND NAME, X COMPANY, X BATTALION SUBJECT: PROPOSED CHANGES TO MIDREGS CONSENSUS AND DISCUSSION FROM STAKEHOLDERS REFERENCE : (a) COMDTMIDNINST 5400.6 (series) DISCUSSION: State the section you wish to change and write it out verbatim. Text size for memo is 12pt font, Times New Roman. This memo should not exceed one page. Use tabs (TAB A, TAB B, etc.) to refer to lengthy discussion areas/references. BACKGROUND: Describe in your own words the action the current verbiage is attempting to accomplish. a. Proposed Change: Write out verbatim the proposed change as you would like to make. b. Reason for change: D escribe in detail your justification for the change. WAY AHEAD: Why it is necessary and/or acceptable for the Commandant to approve or sign the recommended action? RECOMMENDATION: Commandant of Midshipmen approves by initialing as appropriate APPROV E DISAPPROVE MODIFY ATTACHMENT/S: If no attachments, remove entire line. Multiple attachments example below Prepared By: Name, Organization, Phone (1 inch from the bottom)